# General Japan Tips

Participants in this sub and r/JapanTravel were SO helpful in my trip planning that I hope to give back with some overall Japan learnings. I will be posting separately on r/JapanTravel about my time in Tohoku and Hokkaido as that sub is a bit short on advice for those areas.

  
These are all the observations from one, three week plus visit -- a small sample size for a vast country and I welcome comments and corrections.

  
Walking; Everyone here was correct: you are going to walk a lot. Great, broken-in walking shoes are a must. I had a relatively new pair of Hokas and they did great. One other walking note. People seemed to favor walking on the left (just as they drive) but there appeared to be little consistency even within the same city. Even with some subway stations, there are instructions for each.

  
Waiting in lines: Get in line and don't try to skip them. People form lines early and neatly, whether it's for a restaurant, bus, train, or traffic light.

  
Umbrella culture: I packed my usual lightweight rain jacket. That was a mistake. Japan has an umbrella culture and they are cheap and everywhere. Find a store and buy one for about 400Y.

  
Trains: No JR Pass advice here as there are million posts on that. My observation on subways and local trains is that no one gives up their seat to old folks or anyone else and they ignore the signs for the seats that have a preference for those who may need them. I found this to be a sharp departure from the amazingly polite culture of the country. I welcome dissent.  
Money: There is lots of advice that Japan, especially since the Olympics and COVID, is much less of a cash society. In my view, you should forget that advice. I used lots of cash in lots of places. Pretty much every mid-priced restaurant (i.e., not chain or high end) in the 1000Y to 2000Y range was cash only. Lots of attractions outside of Tokyo were cash only and you need cash at temples and shrines. Seven (as they call 7-Eleven) cash machines worked great. The minimum you can get is 10000Y and make sure to choose the option of ten, 1000Y notes. You will also want an IC Card such as a SUICA. I put it on my iPhone and was able to load it and reload it with Apple Wallet. You will use it everywhere including especially in restaurants, convenience stores, and buses.

  
Vending machines: Although I'd heard about the amazing variety of things you can buy in a machine, almost all of the machines I saw sold beverages. Prices varied from 100Y to 200Y. You will use them, trust me. Most did not take IC cards so carry some 100Y and smaller coins.

  
Food: I spent some time researching the "best" places to eat and then gave up. Everywhere I went was really good. For breakfasts, I typically went to the chains for a Japanese breakfast and spent 400Y to 500Y. Lunch was a mix of counters (don't miss the ones in department store basements and near markets) and takeaways. Dinner was my "real restaurant" time. I simply walked around and looked for something that seemed good. You can't go wrong and, where they did not have English menus, people helped including fellow diners. Google Translate also came in handy. My usual dinner budget was 1000Y to 2000Y. With that, I ate very well.

  
Toilets: OMG, I love Japan. Public toilets are everywhere and they are clean and have washlets. Unlike other countries I have travelled to, I never had to worry about finding a place to go. Make sure to bring along a small hand towel. Many restrooms lack any way to dry your hands.  
Konbinis: Japanese convenience stores are simply great. I did not eat their hot foods but enjoyed lots of snacks and drinks. Make sure to try an egg salad sandwich. I didn't believe the hype for the sandwiches, but it was deserved. As mentioned, they are a great place to get cash and use the toilet.  
Passports: You are required to carry yours at all times. I was never asked for it except when checking into a hotel. I used a hidden wallet that hooked to my belt. It was a relatively convenient way to carry it and also to safeguard my JR Pass (remember, if you lose your JR Pass, they don't replace it).

  
Directions: Although I'd downloaded several suggested apps, I relied almost exclusively on Google Maps. Except in places that had special tourist buses, I found that it covered all transportation options accurately including with information on whether buses and trains were late (although, as this is Japan, that was rare). Some of the walking directions were a bit funky, especially in densely packed city areas and you need to remember that many big cities iare three dimensional and the place you are looking for may be on o higher floor or underground. The exception to my use of Google Maps was the Japan Travel by NAVITIME app, which I found useful in selecting intercity trains using my JR Pass.

  
Internet: Can't imagine what I would have done with great access. I used a Ubigi e-SIM and public (and hotel) free Wifi whenever I could sniff some out. I used almost all of my 10gig allotment for my 24 days.

  
Goshuin: I had a lot of fun collecting these temple and shrine stamps in the goshuincho (stamp book) I purchased on my first day in Tokyo. Each goshuinis a small work of art with red stamps and black calligraphy. They cost between 300Y and 500Y each. You can google goshuin and read up on how to get the stamps.  
Clothes/laundry: I am a one bagger and travel light. I was able to do my usual bathroom laundry wherever I was. There is no need for any special clothes. I saw plenty of shorts and T-shirts although I don't recommend them for visitors. I was surprised not see more jeans. Another tip: Every mid-range hotel provided me with PJs. There is no need to pack something to sleep in. 

  
Medicines: There is a lot of talk and anxiety on the sub on what you can and can't bring into Japan. I get it. However, no one ever looked in my luggage or asked me about meds. I'm not advocating violating the law! However, if you are compliant, it's not like you will necessarily have to prove it.

  
Masks: Mask wearing was everywhere although certainly not 100 percent. You will feel comfortable wearing a mask anywhere. You will also not stand out if you don't.

  
Trash: The advice was correct. Carry a bag with you as Japan doesn't believe in public trash cans. I saw one in Sapporo and took a picture of it because it was so unusual. You can dispose of the bag in your hotel or in a convenience store.

  
"Coin" Lockers: They are everywhere also. The medium sized ones were 400Y for the day. I put "coin" in quotes because some, but certainly not all, allow you to use IC Cards. You need 100Y coins but most locker areas have a machine where you can change a 100Y note.

  
Photos of people: Make sure to get permission to take photos of people. Some folks just don't want you to.

  
Baseball: If you are a fan, go to a Japanese baseball game. The experience is so much better than at an American ballpark.  
Language: The more you try, the more it is appreciated. I got by on hello, thank you, sorry, and "what do you recommend?". Many people understand a bit of English. Also, almost all important signage is in English as well as Japanese.

  
Hotels: The advice was correct that Japanese hotels are serious about their check in times. They will hold your bag but don't expect a room before 3 p.m. Also, please please take a look at the floor plan of your hotel to know how to evacuate in case of fire or other emergency. That's not just a Japan tip, but it is a matter of life and death.  
Guides: Many Japanese cities, including Tokyo, offer free, personal guide services delivered by volunteers. You only pay for their expenses. It's a great way to learn more about a place and its people. Google "volunteer tour guides japan" to find them.

  
Getting Away from Tourist Japan: The Golden Route (Tokyo-Kyoto-Osaka) is amazing and not to be missed. However, if possible, you should try to go somewhere else that is less-touristy. That way, you can see more of the "real" Japan. You will also find that it's easier to meet people. There are so many amazing sites and experiences beyond the usual.

  
Being non-Asian: Outside of the Golden Route and even some places within it (such as baseball parks), you will see few if any non-Asians. People would look and then, politely, not stare. If you are non-Asian, they will know you are a tourist. That is good in my opinion as people try to help.  
You are a Guest: It's important to remember this. Your behavior not only reflects on you but on all who visit. If you make an etiquette mistake, and I certainly did, it's OK if you apologize and learn.

### Comment 1

My favorite Japan-ism was seeing everyone wearing backpacks on their front (chest) on the subway during rush hour. That way you don’t accidentally hit someone with your backpack if you’re turning around, and you’re overall taking up less space (since the volume of air between your chest and your arms isn’t empty any more and you aren’t taking up new volume extending from your back). Certainly wasn’t a requirement and I still saw people wearing backpacks normally, but so many did this backpack on the chest thing and I thought it was such a considerate thing to do for your fellow subway rider

### Comment 2

Quick note:

<< You will also want an IC Card such as a SUICA. I put it on my iPhone and was able to load it and reload it with Apple Wallet. >>

If you have an iPhone you can go to your Apple Wallet, click the plus on the top right, add a "transit card," pick Suica, Pasmo or ICOCA (doesn't really matter which much), and then add 1000 yen with your credit card. Be sure to use a card with no foreign transaction fees. Also Visa cards for some reason stopped working recently. Mastercard and AmEx still work though.

This is a great convenience. If you have android, or only a Visa card, you're going to have to buy a physical card and you can only charge it with cash.

### Comment 3

[deleted]

### Comment 4

I live here. People wear shorts but generally not to work if it’s office work. I asked a cop about the which side thing, and generally it’s keep left unless otherwise indicated. Where bikes are allowed on the sidewalk, they are supposed to use the side closer to the road, and pedestrians keep to the outside away from the road. However on narrow one way roads where it’s a mix of cars, bikes and ppl, the rule is supposed to be walk on the right. Not many ppl know or follow that one though.

### Comment 5

This will sound really random, but I loved the late night fast food in Japan. Gyudon or Tonkatsu from the 24-hour places like Yoshinoya, or even the pasta at conbinis they’ll heat up for you is great. And all is incredibly cheap by US standards.

