# What foods should I put on my “must eat” list?

Going to Japan for the first time in two weeks, I’ve got a list of things I want to try while we’re there - it’s also only ten days so we will only have so much time. Let me know what I’m missing from the list!

- [ ] Konbini egg sandwich
- [ ] Sushi
- [ ] Fluffy pancakes
- [ ] Wagyu
- [ ] Katsudon 
- [ ] Takoyaki 
- [ ] Okonomiyaki
- [ ] Ramen
- [ ] Curry
- [ ] McDonalds
- [ ] Onigiri
- [ ] Candied fruit 
- [ ] Mochi 
- [ ] Gyoza
- [ ] Melon bread
- [ ] Cheese coin

Edit- didn’t specify, will be in Tokyo, Kyoto, and Osaka!

### Comment 1

Get some karaage (fried chicken).

### Comment 2

Get some taiyaki with red bean paste filler.

### Comment 3

Pointless story time :) My wife cannot stand takoyaki, and as we have an upcoming Japan trip and have been watching a fairr amount of youtube Japan travel videos, every time Osaka "must do" stuff pops up, she's like "they better not tell me i have to eat takoyaki!" inevitably, they do. 

&#x200B;

I would add to the Kombini egg sandwich, a Kombini strawberry and cream sandwich.  Also one of the variations of battered hotdogs on a stick.

### Comment 4

Unagi

### Comment 5

How about…
• Tofu 
it’s totally different with the ones sold at foreign supermarkets. Fresh tofu is great and special even for Japanese Locals!

•Soba with Tempura 
Soba is a noodle made with buckwheat. Tokyo is a great place to taste it. We call it EDO-MAE Soba!

•Sake and Sashimi 
If you like drinking, Sake is a great combination with Sashimi! As you are planning to go to a Sushi place, they should have that combination too! BTW, 100yen Sushi (which is served on a Conveyor belt) is fine. But that is not a traditional Sushi. It’s like the difference between a good traditional hamburger and Mcdonald’s hamburger. Hope you find a good Sushi place and taste the good ones!

Enjoy your research and have a great trip!!

