# What are the bad tourist traps to avoid in Tokyo, Kyoto, and Osaka?

My wife and I are planning our long delayed honeymoon this Sakura season in late March. We will be going to Tokyo, Hakone, Kyoto, Nara (day trip), and Osaka (with probably one more day trip from there) over 2 weeks.

Like the title says, I'm curious about what tourist traps to avoid. Let me be clear: we are American tourists on our first trip to Japan - we are going to wind up at a lot of tourist spots.

My goal is to avoid places that are both 1) crowded with tourists, and 2) bad or really inauthentic. This was spurned by some comments I saw on Nishiki market in Kyoto being crowded and having really bad food.

Any thoughts welcome!

Edit: Wow, this blew up! Thank you so much everyone, I will be reading every comment! I appreciate it greatly. Also, for clarity "authentic" was a poor choice of words.

### Comment 1


>1) crowded with tourists

Anywhere that has the slightest bit of fame will be crowded, and not just with foreigners. In fact, domestic tourist outnumber foreign ones by an order of magnitude, so most places cater for the locals and don't have the same tourist trap feel you get from places that mainly target foreigners. One of the few attractions that did have that feel (the robot restaurant) is no longer in business. 

>2) bad or really inauthentic.

There are very few places that actually feel inauthentic and cynical. Even places that I'd consider touristy (eg Sensoji) still has its charms and is worth visiting.

### Comment 2

Not a turist trap but Fushimi Inari during the day is a huge mistake. Just go there at night and enjoy the city night views, the torii gates passages and the mountain forest without an instagramer every step or several chinese tourist groups collapsing the stairs. Also its kind of scary/magical, I love it.

### Comment 3

we spent weeks research the top 7 locations in Kyoto, temples, best moss garden, rock garden, udon noodles. in details of guidebooks, youtube

what we only understood once get there, is there might be 5 most famous temples, golden, moss, rock, silver …

there are perhaps 400 total.

so you can stand in huge crowd, pay $35 for famous temple

or go to non famous, also 300 years old, location, free or $2 entry fee, & NOBODY THERE. so you sit & enjoy moss or rocks in silence, alone, an hour.

repeat this for wait in line 2 hours most famous ramen, or no line of one the other 200 ramen locations.

this applies to everything.

also, don't miss out on the vague, simple.

7-11 food

food courts department store basement

also. you are doing many cities. all of those cities have some version of everything. consider less cities & perhaps some small towns, coast, islands, farms, mountains

be willing explore random, get lost

otherwise, going be awesome

### Comment 4

I dont get the hate for nishiki market. just because it is not a super secret and the cheapest and best food of the whole world.

chances are, if you, and the 3499 bloggers, influerncers, ki travel guides, and 20 guys/girls on reddit have heard of it and put it on a list, its not a secret and "touristy"

its your job, as a tourist, to go to touristy places.

which is why we go to tokyo, hakone, kyoto, osaka, hiroshima... 
touristy places have the infrastructure to deal with us, this includes the ability to give us what we want, as well as what we need.

but thats not all. those touristy places, they are so for a reason. fushimi inari, kinkakuji, yes they are full, yes they are on all the lists. but they are because, they are unique. there is no other golden tempel surrounded by water. there is no hike with thousand red tori gates. 

in kyoto, there is no street where in 2-3 hours you can sample 10 different "must eat" foods. AND sample sake, umeshu, sample/buy tsugemono AND shop for gifts. its not the best or cheapest place, no, but its an experience, and its convenient.

I must make clear, I am not defending actual bad intentioned and possibly criminal enterprise that live by trapping tourists. the touts in tokyo are a good example. I am not sure I would include animal cafes there, but I will say that asking tourist to not support those establishments have merit.
Another example was the restaurant which was bad and living from tourists. I think this may qualify as a somewhat tourist trappy establishment. but I will also say, that you probably wont find the restaurant on many "must see" lists. even influencers wont probably push it too much.

so please, (and I am addressing everyone, not only OP), stop bashing places that are popular for being popular, or places that dont live up to the hype as tourist traps. 
even bamboo forest is not a tourist trap. its lackluster, its not like the pics on instagram, but its still a nice are to go, and once you are in arashiyama, there is a world of opportunities to find while you walk to and from the bamboo grove

so OP

make your plans. figure out where you wanna go. dont be afraid to pick popular spots. they are popular for good reasons, most times.  

there are a few points of concern about touts, and possibly some what questionable restaurants, overly touristy activities, which people have started to list. but honestly, even a too inauthentic tea ceremony, or like the samurai & ninja museum with experience in kyoto, or the robot restaurant in tokyo (closed) which could be described as overly touristy traps, many people enjoyed....

### Comment 5

Dotonbori and shinsekai can feel tourist-trappy as both kind of feel like las vegas and times square had a baby, but it doesn’t mean avoid them - both are still historic landmark areas with tons of shops and restaurants and part of Osaka culture. It is crowded but its a city area with tons of shops and restaurants so of course it is crowded.

