# What is the first thing you guys do when you land in Tokyo?

I’m keeping my first evening open based on how I’m feeling after a thirteen+ hour flight, but I’m just curious what you guys all tend to do first when you get into Tokyo and check into your hotels? Just looking for some thoughts! Any shops you like to hit up first? Any type of food you seek out? Or do you head to the big sites right away? Just chill for the first day before a crazy and exciting trip?

I get in at about 3pm so I’ll mostly just have an evening. First time in Japan and also first flight that’ll be that long! And I’m staying in Ginza that first night if you have any just-got-to-Tokyo suggestions!

Edit to say: wow!! I was not expecting so many answers to this!! Thank you so much everyone; it’s getting me even more excited for my trip!

### Comment 1

hit up their convenience store! its amazing to see the wide variety of beverages they offer thats not sold in our home country, so far im missing calpis the most haha

edit:honestly if i were u i would spend the rest if the day maybe going for a walk and enjoy the new environment im in, helps with relaxing during our holiday

### Comment 2

After many, many trips, I have pretty much the same landing routine. My regular flight lands at about 4pm, and I rush through the airport not stopping for anything until I get down to the train. From there, I get my Skyliner ticket to Ueno, then grab a bottle of Pocari Sweat and a can of coffee for the ride. Once at Ueno, I check into my hotel, drop off my stuff, and head out for rotating sushi. After that, I usually stop by a konbini to pick up more water and an ice cream for dessert, and then I head back to the hotel to relax for the night.

### Comment 3

I'll be getting in Friday round supper time, first thing I'm doing is going to the muscle girl bar and asking for uppies.

### Comment 4

[deleted]

### Comment 5

Checked in to the hotel in Shinjuku and went to metropolitan govt building to enjoy the city view! 

Suggest u find somewhere nearby to explore - how about the secret shrine in ginza? its tucked  in an alley. Shld be fun to walk ard to search for it. 

[https://tokyopast3.com/tokyo-toyoiwa-inari/](https://tokyopast3.com/tokyo-toyoiwa-inari/)

have a nice dinner and rest because a trip to Japan is always full of walking. u need to get a good rest to enjoy the remaining of the trip.

