# How do y’all combat Japan Post Travel Blues?

I’m about to depart on the last leg of my flight back home and it hasn’t really hit me yet that im back in the states. I think the post travel blues will hit in the next two days. It’s been helpful to think about all the things that await me; Halloween season, baking, Cyberpunk Expansion release, new SAW film release, The Continental release, seeing my family. 

I did bring back dishware, souvenirs, treats, specialty soy sauce, vegan dashi and Worcester sauce, sake and other stuff for me from Japan. I also plan on watching Memoirs of a Geisha, Maiko House, and Kill Bill within the next week. 

But already people here are grating on my nerves. Unfriendly airport staff, grumpy TSA agents, obnoxiously loud people on public transport….

So wondering how everyone else deals.

### Comment 1

Usually by booking my next holiday to Japan…

### Comment 2

I think the main issue isn’t leaving Japan, but returning to the USA 😝

### Comment 3

By staying on this sub and helping answer questions from others with information you gained on your visit. It keeps the experience alive and pays it forward.

### Comment 4

I cried. A lot. 

Then stared looking ahead to my next trip and planning the 2 after that :)

### Comment 5

Yep I'm already planning my next trip lol. Bookmarking all interesting places on Google maps, tiktoks, Instagram reels.... I already have the outline of my next vacation lol. Just waiting on a flight deal lol. 

I just finished Maiko house lol. But yes, I am on an anime kick too. Next time, I am adamant on improving my japanese, so I am self-studying.

