# Travel Report: 10 Days in Tokyo - Sept 15-25

Recounts of people's trips helped me plan my own trip, so in the same vein, I offer a recounting of my own adventures in Tokyo- specifically the elements of planning that helped smooth our journey.

Arrived Sept. 15 to Haneda at roughly 1pm.  This was after a huge delay with our airline that forced a rebooking. I don't want to trash the airline because they said it was a maintenance issue, and while it was frustrating at the time, I am grateful that whatever issue the plane experienced was discovered then and not when we were 30k feet above the middle of the Pacific Ocean...

My wife and I had a backpack and a checked rolling bag each. I had pre-purchased Sucia cards so we simply walked to the train terminal, which was essentially one escalator away from our exit from customs, and hopped on the train.  We were flirting with the start of the subway go-home rush hour, which seems to be roughly 4pm-6pm on weekdays, but had no difficulty getting on trains and getting to our hotel.

((Pre-ordering Suica cards may no longer be possible due to a stoppage of new cards being sold. But when I left on the 25th at Narita, I saw machines offering Welcome Suicas still up and running.  And all else failing- it really is not super difficult to get aka carte subway tickets on the machines- having the card is much much better, of course, but to buy an individual ticket, all you need to do is:

1. Hit the language button  to English. Its always on the front page of the kiosk and usually in the upper right, I believe.
2. Hit the button to buy a ticket and then you can search for the name of your destination train station (or the xfer station if you have to swap train lines)- it will auto fil as you type roman letters, so its super easy to find the one you need and push the button.
3. Put in money as required.  The machines give change.

NOTE:  Never throw away a train/subway ticket, as in most everything, the point you are checked as having paid the right fare is the moment you EXIT that train line's environment.  You need to give the ticket to the machine at the end of the ride, too, to get out.))

Anyway....

**INTERNET:** I elected to go with a rented Wi-Fi unit that I planned to pick up in Shinjuku later that day, so I had my train route written down on paper and had no trouble.  I used Ninja wifi, which cost about $90 for the 10 day rental, and found the unit to not be a significant burden and it adequately provided wifi to us all over the city. We could have picked it up at Haneda, but our original flight plan had us arriving several hours before that desk had opened, so I elected to pick it up from the Shinjuku office, which was an easy walk from my hotel.

**CASH:** While I heard that Japan was a cash society, Tokyo seems very card friendly. I was able to easily use my credit card almost everywhere.  I only used about $850 in cash over 10 days, and about $200 of that was put on our Sucia cards for our extensive train usage (and beverage purchases). Though my tastes do not get very extravagant, and I tend to focus on the small pleasures in life. A notable exception to this was Tsukiji Fishmarket which was almost entirely cash, so far as I could tell, so bring a stack of yen when you head there.

**NAVIGATION:** Google maps is a godsend in that it will map your route on the Tokyo train station, noting your transfer stations and most usefully- telling you which platform your desired train is on.  There are signs everywhere, so there zero need to read Japanese to find the appropriate line- but there can sometimes be a question if you are picking the train that goes in the desired direction on that line. There are usually stop maps posted on cement columns near platforms, but Google Maps was never wrong and we never once accidently went in the wrong direction.  We used the trains for 99% of our personal transport with only a single short taxi ride on a single day.

**HOTEL:** We stayed at APA Hotel Shinjuku Gyoenmae which I booked through Expedia. I paid in full on arrival with credit card. It cost about $1250 for 10 nights. The room was small, but it was clean and the bed was comfortable. It was also right next to a subway station and the surrounding neighborhood seemed a quiet commercial/residential area with plenty of restaurants. Meanwhile, Golden Gai and surrounding trendy (and/or sleezy, depending on which direct) nightlife areas are an easy 10min walk away... which seems great if you are looking to be out late and don't want to worry about last train.

I know APA is not particularly popular to some reddit members, but I had a satisfactory stay with no issues. The room was idea as a homebase for sleeping, but not ideal if you might be the type who sees the hotel itself as a part of the vacation and wants to lounge around.  I adventure under the mentality that any moment spent in a hotel room is a wasted moment- unless I am sleeping, showering or having sex. For that, APA seemed perfect and a fair price.

**Day to Day Planning:** In general, my philosophy was to minimized reservation constraints and generally plan to spend most of the day in the general area of the reservations I did have.  One days with no plans, it was generally- lets go to this place and see what's there!

**Food Is Great:** Food was delicious almost everywhere, and I mostly only mention the stuff to avoid because I don't think you really need to plan out meals unless you are going for something highly specific and popular.  It seemed any given street had plenty of delicious food to offer. The only real mediocre food we had was at themed cafes (a maid cafe and the Eorzea Cafe) and out of sumo wrestling bento boxes. The only really bad food was in the Karaoke Tower- and I don't mean just bad for Japan, but bad for anywhere.  Everything else, including the items from combini stores lik 7-11, was ranged from good to delicious.

**Tokyo sleeps in:** Most businesses don't open until 10-1130 am, with the exception of the Tsukiji fish market, some few cafes,  the combini stores: Lawsons, 7-11, and Family Mart, and the trains which start around 5am. But that also means that any touristy spot like a park or a shrine that opens up early will be practically empty.  I really came to enjoy early morning Tokyo- so I would highly recommend taking advantage of this fact when you consider big tourist spots that can be enjoyed without the related businesses being open, like Meiji Shrine or city parks

**PARKS AND MOSQUITOS:**  If you plan any activity in parks, there is usually a stagnant water source like a large pond, and with that, mosquitos.  I suffered maybe two minor bites, but my wife was absolutely devoured in Inokashira Park and at the Imperial Palace.  So pick up some bug repellant at a 7-11 early in your trip.

**Arrival Day:**  Checked-in, bathed, walked to the Ninja Wifi office to get our unit. Got cash. Tried a local food place. Collapsed into bed.

**Day 1 (First Full Day):**  **Akihabara.**

As a huge weeb/nerd myself, I thoroughly enjoyed exploring all the tech and anime-based stores here.  If you are not into electronics or anime, you may still find the sheer novelty of what's being offered here to keep you fascinated for many hours.  I would rate this destination as almost purely shopping-related but if you like the kinda stuff on offer, we easily filled a day exploring and enjoying the adventure.

I had reservations at a maid cafe, (not my particular choice) which was... interesting.  The food is very mediocre, so you are definitely there for the staff interaction.  I would not have gone had it not been for my partner, and I would argue against going again, and so would she.  Its maybe something to do to say you've done it, but.. yeah... its just bad food accompanied by awkwardly ad-hoc theatre. No need to go back, though apparently those businesses make bank. To each their own...

At the end of the day, we had dinner at the Eorzea Cafe, which is a themed cafe for Final Fantasy 14 Online.  I am a fan of the game and even I would say that its not a big loss to not go to this place: mediocre food that comes with some game-related trinkets. Something to do to say you've done it, much like the maid cafe we went to in the morning.

*Judgement:*  I feel like Akihabara has so much in it that, as a westerner, feels so canonically Tokyo, that its worth an exploration by anyone.  You can easily lose yourself here for a day, aimlessly wandering in an out of unique stores.

**Day 2: Ghibli Museum, Inokashira Park, and Kichijoji.**

The Ghibli Museum is really good if you are a fan. Thoroughly satisfied with the experience and remember it vividly even now.  Inokashira Park is a cool walk, as you can get surprisingly deep into a wooded area and hear the cicadas without city noises.  The zoo is a minor curiosity, but its cheap.

Kichijoji feels like a local shopping district.  We did not have much time to explore it, but there are some shops and trendy looking restaurants.   I feel like this is a good place to go for a more local Tokyo experience, and it is someplace I want to go back to and explore a bit more.

*Judgement*:  Perhaps a side-destination for the Ghibli Museum, but may hold hidden gems for those looking to avoid the press of other international tourists.

**Day 3: Shibuya**

While my spouse wanted to rest the morning in bed, I was wide awake at 5am and walked over to Shinjuku Park, which was right next to our hotel.  It was a nice walk and a lovely park, but I'm not sure it has anything that makes it a "must see", by any means, but if you are nearby and like parks- its a good one.  Later, we headed for Shibuya.

Shopping, shopping, shopping.  All our walking and jet-lag were stacking up this day, and the summer heat was a bit oppressive.  We perhaps foolishly arrived on a national holiday, so the place was jumping.  I honestly just remember lots of people, everywhere, all the time- and me sweating, a lot.  We took part in the Shibuya Scramble.  We shopped the Shibuya mall that features the Shibuya Sky at the top, and I noted that building isn't particularly tall- the roof is like the 14th or 15th floor? But Shibuya Sky was sure sold out, regardless.

*Judgement:* I don't think we adequately explored much of anything here. If I spend any time in Tokyo again, I intend to go back to Shibuya during a weekday and give it a better look.

**Day 4:  Meiji Shrine and Enoshima Island - All You Can Drink Sake at Sake House via Klook**

This was my favorite day, but we sure got some exercise.

We walked from our hotel to Meiji Shrine, which was about 30 minutes of walking. The shrine opens at dawn, and we got there a bit after 6am, and it was us and a handful of joggers.  There was maybe six other people in the shrine while we were there, including the security guard, and it was serene and beautiful.  One of the highlights of the trip for me. I remember that as we walked out the main exit, a priest started booming away at what sounded like a giant drum, echoing through the woods.  Very cool.

We got on the train at Harajuku, a district we neglected to explore in any way, and spent an hour riding south to Enoshima Island.  This little island has some beachtown shops, but is basically one long stair climb up a giant forested rock that is covered in shrines of all sorts.  You can pay to take an escalator thats carved into the mountain, but we hiked it and sweated boat loads.  It felt like a pilgrimage, and since there are shrines everywhere all over this thing, plus an observation tower at the top, it kind of was:  the target of our pilgrimage being the Dragon Love Bell and a place to lock a love lock!

Great cafe's at the top and visually has a Ghosts of Tsushima type feel- for anyone spending all their trip either in Tokyo or major inland cities, this seems a great place to get a tiny feel for the Japanese coast.

We returned to Shinjuku and the All You Can Drink Sake thing from Klook was nearby, so we headed for that at 6pm.  But still a bit jet-lagged, with 28k steps for the day, and some mild dehydration, we each downed 9 cups of various drinks and were responsibly drunk in 1.5 hours and my wife wanted to leave.  This was at a place called Sake House and it was a neat little place and we did not come close to fully taking advantage of the offer.

*Judgement*:  My favorite day of our trip.  Meiji Shrine was stunning, and Enoshima was a fun adventure.  If you and your S.O. are up for a day hike- bring a customized padlock and head for the Dragon Bell.

**Day 5: Sumo and Tokyo Skytree at Night via Klook**

I'm a sumo fan, so I had tickets for the sumo tournament.  We walked around the arena in the morning, not feeling the need to arrive for the really early bouts. Had a bite at a small cafe and saw the Japanese Sword Museum- which is just one room of recent examples of expert craftmanship.  Nice looking stuff, but we more than exhausted the content in 30 minuets.  But it was just something to do for a little bit while we waited for the sumo tournament to progress to some higher ranked fighters.

I enjoyed watching and getting all kinds of sumo souvenirs.  My wife kept in good humor and became more interested in the sport once we bought merch featuring my favorite fighters.

After we had the ambition to walk to the Skytree, but some heavy rain prompted us to catch a taxi over, which was an easy 990 yen.

The clouds were high so the view from the Skytree was stunning- night Tokyo stretching out at all sides to what seemed the curvature of the earth.  One of the coolest visual sights of my trip and makes me advocate this as the ultimate place to see Tokyo from above. Its also the tallest.

**Day 6: Tsukiji Fishmarket and Senso-Ji  (and a walk-by of Golden Gai and Kabuchiko)**

The old fishmarket opens up early, so we headed over early. Bring cash. Most vendors were already up and running and there were not many people there- which seems a good thing because the place is small. Its like 4 or so alleyways with interesting food to try.  We did not find any good deals on seafood here, as it seemed slightly more expensive here than at most restaurants throughout the city.  But the freshness was undeniable and there is some good eating to be done here, and we did so with gusto.

From there we went to Senso-Ji and arrived by 10am.  The place was absolutely swarming with tourists, but once you finish up the main central street you realize that Senso-Ji temple sits in the center of an entire grid of shopping streets. Lots of interesting food to be eaten here.  My favorites were.. well.. when you stand at the foot of the main stars to the central temple, you walk down the long avenue to your left, passing the Pagoda on your left and then some free standing stones that mark the grave of an old poet, also on your left. You continuing into a covered shopping street across the way- and you will find Blue-Cheese Wagyu Beef Cutlets and Cheesy Curry Bread Buns.  Both were totally awesome.

We headed back to Shinjuku for a nap, intending to finally be rested enough for a bit of late-night life.  We set out sights for Golden Gai and headed there after sunset.  It was another hot day, and perhaps we were fatigued, but we walked the few alleys of Golden Gai and only really saw the prospect of sweating in a gimmicky small room next to other tourists.  We were not feeling it and resolved to see what nearby Kabuchiko had to offer- and that seemed to be just... sleeze.   It was an interesting walk, but suspicion and perhaps a bit of fear kept us away from every business in the area.

In the end, we stumbled upon one of those omnipresent Karaoke Towers and rented out a private room for the two of us.  We ended up spending four hours singing with each other and drinking lots of beer- all while eating easily the worst food of the trip. But thats not why we were there.

*Judgement*:  This was a very tourist trap heavy day, but we avoided the crowds at the fishmarket by going early which I whole heartily recommend.  Meanwhile... Senso-Ji might be better early, but the historical shopping street and the crowds seem a central part of the experience there, as being busy with people is likely how Senso-Ji has been for centuries, so it feels authentic to be amidst crowds there.  As for Golden Gai and Kabuchiko.. maybe we were just tired or maybe we were just not of the vibe for us in particular, I know lots of people seem to really like those areas.  I favored the more trendy and calmer nightlife areas closer to, and just east of Shinjuku Station, myself.  It seems most locals did, too, as those places seemed mostly filled with Japanese while Golden Gai and Kabuchiko had tourists packed everywhere.  But all three of those areas are right up against each other, so no matter your preferred vibe, I'm sure you will find something you will like in Shinjuku at night.

**Day 7: Akihabara again**

Went back to finish up shopping for gifts and explore more places we didn't get to before.  Was a good day, but nothing different to say from my first Akihabara comments.

**Day 8: Kabuki Theatre ((Kabuki-Za)), Imperial Palace via Ginza, and  Tokyo Tower.**

We had a kabuki show and I accidently bought the entire show when I could have purchased one act.  One act of kabuki, for me, was more than enough.  We left at the first intermission and chalked up the extra ticket price as a donation to the Japanese arts.  It is essentially sing-song voice opera in Japanese- and unfortunately, the English translation devices were not available, so... it was an experience, but I would hesitate in claiming that I enjoyed it.  Not because of the quality of the actors or anything like that- but due to my own ignorance and lack of capacity to really connect with the material.  I would put this as something to do to say you've done it- or if someone in your group has a particular interest in live theatre.  I mean... most of the older Japanese folks received an electronic device that piped them standard spoken Japanese via earphones- presumably because kabuki is so Japanese even the Japanese themselves need a little help with it.

From there, we walked across the Ginza district which looked like big money and big shopping, and a place I would want to explore more in depth on a different visit- but we were headed for the Imperial Palace.  Wherein there really isn't much to see if you don't get in on one of the tour groups that actually goes into the grounds.  We missed that and instead walked around the moat and visited the open east gardens, but with the exception of three surviving guardhouses, its mostly just a small park with various signs that advise something really cool used to be in that spot before it burned down about 400 years ago.  The moat itself is cool and how it looks against the skyline of Ginza is awesome.

Tokyo Tower seemed a bit redundant after the Skytree, but I heard two cool things from trip reports like this one you are, maybe? still reading this far:  Tokyo Tower is cool at night, and the nearby Prince Park Tower Hotel has a 33rd floor bar that has an amazing view.   We somewhat accidently arrived at the hotel at sunset and found it with plenty of spaces to lounge and drink with a stunning view of the city and of Tokyo Tower that become cooler and cooler as night fell and lights turned on.  Its priced like a tourist trap in the states, so... $20 bucks a cocktail.  But the staff is chill and when you are that early, I think they know you are going to be gone before the big spenders arrive later.  One of my favorite memories of the trip is casually drinking a decent sake out of a crystal glass and meditating on the city skyscape- I felt like I was inside a City Pop album cover.

We then walked to the tower itself, which is cool to look at in the dark and there are some shops inside, but we didn't feel the need to pay to go up it. We'd already been 100 meters higher in the Skytree, after all.

&#x200B;

**Day 9 - Final Full Day :  Attempt at Oi Racetrack Flea Market (closed) and then Odaiba/Tokyo Teleport.**

We wanted the flea market this day, but it was not to be.  So after some wandering around the suburbs, we headed for Odaiba on the hope that there was a cool arcade there.  We arrived to find an artificial island which is pretty much just shopping malls.   Three giant malls in a line and another across the street- and some venues and hotels and things.  One big tourist trap, and most of the arcade stuff was geared at young children.  We ended up just wandering around and getting a bite to eat, but it was busy.

Honestly, not much to say about it, but we were also down cause it was our last day.

**Day 10 - Departure**:  I walked to Shinjuku station early in the morning and purchased tickets on the Narita Express train which leaves from Shinuku every 30 mins. The kiosks are in the JR Ticket office, but its a section you can get into even when the office itself is closed. You just use a special version of the normal ticket machines that are everywhere.  Made it a super easy trip to the airport- just under $30 USD per person, but not having to take your luggage through 3 or 4 train xfers is totally worth it.

&#x200B;

Whew, lots of writing, but that was our adventure.  As a sort of TLDR, I will rank all our activities in terms of relative enjoyment I personally got out of them. Take it as you will.

&#x200B;

1. The random things we ran into while exploring around with a mostly non-specific plan.
2. Meiji Shrine early in the morning.
3. Enoshima Island (on a school day)
4. The Prince Park Tokyo Tower 33rd Floor bar/lounge at sunset to nightfall
5. Akihabara (all over, so nice, we did it twice)
6. Sumo
7. Tokyo Skytree at night
8. Ghibli Museum and Kichijoji
9. Tsujiki Fishmarket and Senso-Ji
10. Shibuya
11. Tokyo Tower
12. Imperial Palace ((without being in the tour group and getting to actually go inside))
13. Kabuki Theatre
14. Odaiba
15. Themed cafes

Spent too little time in to really judge: Golden Gai, Kabuchiko, and Ginza

&#x200B;

### Comment 1

I’m going to Japan for the first time in November and so appreciate your thoughtful write up. Thank you for the detail!! Glad you had a great time!

### Comment 2

Thanks for taking the time out to write all this! Definitely informative and helpful. (:

### Comment 3


>I used Ninja wifi, which cost about $90 for the 10 day rental

? I paid ¥3000 for the 10GB USA-Japan Ubigi plan. Needs an unlocked phone tho...

> We were not feeling it and resolved to see what nearby Kabuchiko had to offer- and that seemed to be just... sleeze

AYUP! Off & on since I've been here I've been trying to tell people that! Kabukicho is the last place in Tokyo, hell, Japan, I'd want to visit.

>this as the ultimate place to see Tokyo from above.

yeah first place I took the "tour group" (of coworkers) I led in Tokyo in 2002 was the Shinjuku observation deck since I knew how cool it was. For my last hours in Tokyo next month before I head to HND I booked the Shibuya sky sunset slot @ 4:30...

>Shinjuku Park, which was right next to our hotel. It was a nice walk and a lovely park,

I found Shinjuku park kinda meh-ey the one time I went. Used to be a daimyo's grounds apparently, but I guess getting bombed in 1945 didn't do it any favors.

>The moat itself is cool 

yeah the Tokugawa had just killed their shogunal competition holed up at Osaka Castle so they were building for their future with this fortification!

> artificial island which is pretty much just shopping malls.

my opinion of Odaiba too! Basically Tokyo's postwar garbage dump they redeveloped into a sterile building block. Sitting in the front seat of the driverless train (Yurikamome Line out of Shinbashi) is the highlight of it.

>Akihabrara (all over, so nice, we did it twice)

when I lived in Tokyo back in the 1990s I tried to hit Akihabara once a month or so. Loved seeing the evolution of the Japanese PC and consumer electronics industry, but then around 1999 things changed and Chinese-made stuff started showing up, and all the wacky OEM makes were replaced by boring Windows PCs.

>Ghibli Museum and Kichijoji

Kinda bummed that I didn't book a slot for the Ghibli thing since that's one of the few things in Tokyo I haven't "done" already (Kabuki shows and Maid Cafes being others LOL). This trip I'm only spending two quarter-days in Tokyo tho so no time : (

I got to live in Kichijōji for 6 months back in '92 and '93 and wouldn't mind moving back. Place I rented then still rents for ¥90,000 LOL, or just $600/mo at today's weak yen. Piece of cake!

I also just put ¥5000 on a new virtual Suica card in my iPhone wallet. We'll see how well it works!

Also, when I saw ANA flies to HND I jumped at it. NRT is like in the middle of nowhere and I've wasted enough my life on trains to & from that inconvenient place.

### Comment 4

Thanks for this, how was the queue at airportwhile entering and exiting? Just curious to know the recent airport experience is all.

### Comment 5

>We were not feeling it and resolved to see what nearby Kabuchiko had to offer- and that seemed to be just... sleeze. It was an interesting walk, but suspicion and perhaps a bit of fear kept us away from every business in the area.

Ah Kabukicho! I stayed at a hotel right near Kabukicho and we kept cutting through late at night. I was curious from its reputation and at first I was sort of bored by it.

For starters, it's mostly restaurants and bars at ground level, so just passing through you won't see anything too interesting.

There's the SOD bar, which is super obvious with huge signs and blocked out windows.The bartenders are all pornstars and the interesting bit is chatting with pornstars. Sadly, my Japanese is not up to snuff, so the conversation would have been lost on me.

But beyond that and all the annoying touts trying to get you into bars, it feels pretty normal. Even my super cautious wife felt safe.

There had to be more, so I started digging around the internet. While Kabukicho isn't the haven of sex that it used to be, there are 1-2 Soaplands there, but they are hidden behind inocuous store fronts.

And there are now some wild cabarets. No nudity but sort of sexy fun, think teasing adult entertainment. But again they just look like clubs. If people want claim a Kabukicho experience without any actual danger or nudity, cabarets seem perfect.

Pretty low key, except the last night we got a midnight snack at Curry House Coco in Kabukicho. A guy walks in, full sleeve of tattoos. Orders by just shouting out his order, with no waitresses nearby. Throughout the night, he just barks out requests and they bring it to him. Wife and I are trying our hardest to not make eye contact.

That was fun, but we didn't feel threatened per se.

Kabukicho is midlly interesting. It feels like surface level it's been "cleaned up" since the old days. You won't find anything great by just walking through, except a lot of annoying touts and the blaring SOD Bar. But dig a little deeper or spend some time there and some interesting things might happen.

But not that interesting for most people.

u/torokunai

EDIT: I have not been to Japan since pre-pandemic but post pandemic I hear Kabukicho now has a lot of "standing women" (prostitutes). This was a phenomenon before the pandemic but it was a bit more discrete. Now, you can just see them standing on certain streets and of note they are Japanese women as opposed to foreigners. Western countries also have similar such streets (for example, LA, SF, and Seattle) but in Japan this was not something that you'd see as much until recently and they congregate in Kabukicho. It's not something you'd explicitly notice (why are these young women all standing around on the street staring at their phones?) unless you read the news articles about it. But it definitely makes Kabukicho feel a little red light district-y.

