# Most overrated/underrated attractions

Dear Community. I'm leaving for Japan in a little less than a month. It s my very first time and even though I think I have a pretty solid travel plan (Tokyo - Kusatsu Onsen - Takayama - Kanazawa - Osaka - Naoshima - Koyasan - Kyoto) I am.now a little desperate at what reservations for the big attractions to make before my stay. What can I skip, what should I definitely not skip?

Especially seeking advice on things like TeamLabs, Universal Studios, Disney, Shinjuku Sky, Nara Day trip.

Thank you so so much :)

### Comment 1

Here's a very underrated attraction: [Kyoto Station](https://blue-vagabond.com/2020/12/19/kyoto-station-the-unspoken-highlight-of-the-city/). Since most attractions close fairly early, Kyoto Station is a great way to spend some time before grabbing dinner in or near the station.


- The rooftop is open to the public and free. There's an open-air terrace with a small garden that gives an almost 360° view of Kyoto. I went just before sundown and had a spectacular view as the sun set over the cityscape and as the city lights came on. Take the flights of escalators all the way up to the top;
- Admire the amazing architecture, especially the ceiling/roof.  If you can, walk along the Sky Way for a great view of Kyoto Tower, which is lit up at night. Look down and watch all the people scurrying around like ants;
- About halfway up as you move to another set of escalators, you'll see that the staircase is illuminated. I was there last December, and there was a 15- or 20-minute light show with a Christmas theme. I imagine there's probably an autumn theme showing at this time;
- There is a ton of shopping and restaurants in the station itself. It's also connected to a couple of malls with more shopping, izakayas, and restaurants, and the surrounding streets are filled with even more. I ended up eating most of my evening meals at Kyoto Station because of the wide variety and high quality of dining options.

I loved Nara for the history, shrines/temples, and natural beauty - well-worth a day trip if you enjoy that. Nara has a very different feel and is of a different era than Kyoto. Feeding the deer was fun... for about 15-20 minutes max. I wouldn't go to Nara just for that.

A more unique experience that you will need reservations for is if you take a [tourist sightseeing train](https://livejapan.com/en/in-kansai/in-pref-osaka/in-umeda_osaka-station_kitashinchi/article-a2000220/).

### Comment 2

Each to its own. I prefer the teamlab exhibits to the disney route. But both and usj need pre booking. Teamlab usually only takes 1 to 2 hours depending on your appetite for photos. Disney and usj are generally full day affair. Nara trip can be done for half a day unless you plan to go to a few temples. You don't have to reserve for this, you can just go. The main attractions are easy to locate with plenty signage.

### Comment 3

My wife and I thought Kinkakuji (Golden Pavillion) in Kyoto was overrated. It's a pretty building but you can't get close and there isn't anything else in the complex to see/do.

### Comment 4

I really enjoyed a quick lesson on Edo Kiriko, glass etching. Then I got to make my own. I made a sunflower design on a drinking glass and gave it to my mom as a souvenir.

### Comment 5

Not on your list but the gundam factory in Yokohama is a really awesome thing to witness. It's going away in 2024 so worth a visit before it's gone imo.

