# PSA it’s very difficult to buy Plan B in Japan

For any women travelling to Japan I highly recommend buying some emergency contraceptives before you leave your home country. I was caught out and when I went to a pharmacy to pick some up, I was looked at like I had three heads and was told it’s not possible to buy it from a pharmacy. I ended up needing to go to a women’s clinic where I needed to wait for a doctor’s consultation and luckily that place had a minimal doctor’s fee of 3500 yen but the medication itself costs 10500 yen. Some other places such as hospitals or non-not-for-profit clinic you may end up paying 20000-50000 yen total. And the clinic I went to felt like one of those secret back alley hush-hush 1960s women’s clinics, and the doctor I saw was this elderly man so it was not the best experience.

### Comment 1

Japan only legalized oral contraceptives in 1999, and even now, your contraception choices are basically condom, pill, or _maybe_ IUD if someone will insert it. Not a surprise at all about Plan B.

### Comment 2

Download tinder and match with a military dude. Ask him to buy it on base for you lol. It’s just out on the shelf at mine. I’m like, sort of serious lol

### Comment 3

I would never even consider getting my medication in a foreign county just like “normal”. I mean … I need to go to the doctor to get a recipe for my medication in my country and it would be completely absurd to think they even do sell the same products …

### Comment 4

I would suggest bringing any medications you might need! Navigating a healthcare system in a new country is difficult. I was traveling with my fiancé and got Plan B just in case from Wisp for $5 and they also prescribed zofran with it for another $10.

### Comment 5

I’m bringing all of my feminine products, plus a backup of antibiotics in case of a UTI from my doctor, and Monistat, too. Besides the fact that Japan isn’t as progressive when it comes to contraceptives etc., trying to shop for any emergency items in a different country is stressful because translations can be difficult.

