# Spent my first day in Japan and things feel kinda daunting...

I was convinced (or coerced) by a friend of mine that I could easily take a solo vacation to Japan without knowing any japanese (other than maybe sorry, thank you, hello...) So I booked the trip and landed about 7 hours ago.


Its not the navigation or transportation, that stuff seems family easy to me and I have yet to make a wrong turn or hop on a train going the wrong direction.


Its the whole process of interacting with others, such as ordering food. 


I have major social anxiety and I really don't even know how to begin conversations with others. I don't want to just start speaking in English because theyre going to not understand, but I don't know what else to say. And I hate the idea of walking into a restaurant and holding up the line because I have to somehow explain to them that I can't speak japanese but still want to eat there.


So far I've checked into my hotel (they understood basic english), went to an observation deck where I gave a worker a very strange look when he tried to tell me where I needed to stand, and got some food from Matsuya because the kiosk was in english and I didn't have to even speak to the staff.

Tomorrow is my first real day and I just want to be able to walk into any restaurant off the street and order something, or reach the checkout of a store and not completely crumble when they ask me a question I don't understand. Any advice on how to begin conversations?

### Comment 1

point at item and say "one". lmao ordering food is the easiest thing to do because 99% restaurants have photo menu. This works literally at anywhere in the world

### Comment 2

“Sumimasen, nihongo wakarimasen” means “sorry I don’t understand Japanese”. I always say that when I don’t understand something someone said.

### Comment 3

We just returned from Japan. Most places we went to had English and/or picture menus. We also used Google translate (either audio translate or the lens camera feature) on our phones to help when needed. It wasn’t 100% accurate but helped.

Workers at train/subway/bus stations either spoke some English or used translation apps when we had questions

### Comment 4

Just act normal and be a tourist. (eigo no menyuu wa arimasu ka?) meaning “Do you have an English menu?” Use Google Translate when they don’t speak any English. It might just take a day or two to get comfortable.

### Comment 5

Same boat OP. I’ve been here a week thus far, I’d say you don’t need to worry too much, most times if you say “sorry I don’t speak Japanese”, the store clerk will try their best simple (or complex) phrases (most times they just want to ask if you want a bag). For restaurants you can just point at items. 

I have yet to be chased out of shops, restaurants and trains because of my lack of Japanese. Heck, just today I wrongly assumed I can board an express train with my IC Card, and the worst I had to deal with is one stern train attendant who said “no suica. This is express. Buy ticket. Cash only.” You pretty much can get the gist of my error from these simple phrases alone. Nobody called the police and / or yelled at me.

