# Covid precautions

I just caught covid while on vacation in Tokyo. As you can imagine, it will ruin the last leg of my 8 day trip.

There are droves and droves of people almost everywhere you go and some people will slow symptoms of illness. They have obviously spent a good amount of money to be on vacation and don't give a damn about potentially getting others sick. 

I wish I had wore a mask on public transit and enclosed crowded areas. It's better safe than sorry.

### Comment 1

Going on vacation anywhere popular is going to have Covid risks. At least Japan has a strong masking culture. I went in April and masked indoors, on transit and in crowds outdoors. 

I just got back from the UK a couple of days ago. Had the same approach, but hardly anyone there was wearing masks. Tested positive for Covid the day after arriving home.

Masking isn’t just about protecting yourself. It’s about protecting each other.

### Comment 2

I was considering getting only the flu shot before my trip next month but maybe I'll reconsider also getting that new booster just to be safe

### Comment 3

Just wondering if you’d gotten the latest Covid vaccine before you’d left? Not sure if that provides full protection but my husband and I got ours a full two weeks prior to departure.

### Comment 4

It's still quite warm right now so at the moment there are fewer people masking (that being said mask use even now is still higher than most western countries) but once it starts to cool down and we head into flu season you'll see mask use tick up. This has been the normal before covid.

### Comment 5

Hoping my booster 2 weeks ago saves me

About half the people in the Yamanote car I’m in right now are masked up

