# Common misconceptions about Japan/Tokyo

Traveling to Tokyo TOMORROW!! And I read an interesting post here on reddit, regarding misconceptions about Japan that foreigners have:  "umbrellas in Shibuya Crossing moving like a ballet". This struck me because as an American growing up, an image imprinted in my head from various movies (Resident Evil) or animes (like Sailor Moon) is the iconic Shibuya Crossing with an overhead shot while it's raining and the umbrellas moving in unison, all one color (red or black), like a ballet! I know I don't expect to see that exact image in my head in real life when I visit, but I didn't realize it until reading that post here. Gwen Stefani has me expecting harajuku girls out the wazoo when I go there. 

So it got me thinking, what other things may I have imprinted in my mind without me consciously knowing, should I expect to see a different reality? And on the flip side, what things should I expect to MATCH what I have in my head of Japan?

### Comment 1

I would add to the list of misconceptions that Japan is extremely expensive. Yes, the airfare is pricey if flying from the other side of the world but once you remove that cost, I find Tokyo cheaper than NYC, Vancouver, London, and Montreal.

Once you're here, you can find extremely clean, centrally located accommodations and fantastic food for very reasonable prices. It blows my mind how many UNESCO world heritage sites can be visited for less than $10CAD.

### Comment 2

It is not as expensive as people think. But this is coming from someone who lives in California.

### Comment 3

its bigger than you realize and packing too many things into one day takes away from actually enjoying being in tokyo….

### Comment 4

You should expect that Japan overall really is a place with very nice people that are polite and respectful. They really try, and it adds to why it's such a nice experience being there.

### Comment 5

Shibuya Crossing is an overrated "site" to me. I'd put on the misconception list (for some folks at least) all the geisha images of Japanese women. What will match is all the cool Japanese technology and how there is so much beauty in everyday objects.

