# How do you party in Japan with such a conservative train schedule?

I always hear so much about the "japan nightlife" and how most places don't start picking up until 9PM at the earliest. How do you take part in this stuff when the last trains are at midnight? Taxis? Or do you just stay directly in Shibuya/Shinjuku and walk?

### Comment 1

Back when I was a student, we’d just go out until the trains started running again or we’d just walk back to the dorms.

### Comment 2

Different opitons

1. Stay where you party and return to hotel by foot.
2. Take a taxi back
3. Wait for first train, either stay late in clubs or go sip a soft drink in a McDonald until fist train.

### Comment 3

My routine was:

Eating dinner in Shibuya at 9

&#x200B;

Start drink with people on the streets at 10:30

&#x200B;

Going into the club at 1+

&#x200B;

Then going back home at 5:30-7+

### Comment 4

Thanks everyone for the answers. I think my conclusion here is that the concept of just staying out until the first train never occurred to me, so perhaps I really am getting old lol.

### Comment 5

Taxis are not THAT expensive, but it is expensive compared to the local transit. You can definitely stay where you party if it’s a concern. If you enjoy nightlife, it’s worth the money- or just stay out till the trains start running again. That’s honestly a fun tourist experience, seeing the nightlife partygoers and working people mixing in the self hours in the morning just feels like signature Tokyo.

