# Please ease my anxiety around safety for women in Japan (rural Niigata)

I am traveling to Japan in March next year and have a solo week where I am wanting to do some hiking, checking out waterfalls and rivers etc.

I'm a female, I have done solo travel before however since then I have been attacked and physically assaulted. As a result I get quite anxious about new places. I've been looking at places to go and stay, but I just can't bring myself to book yet. I know Japan is known to be safe but I'm hoping that some reddit people/women can just reassure me that I will be safe. I'm thinking of exploring Niigata but as I say I haven't booked anywhere so am open to suggestions!

Obviously I'm not going to look for trouble, I'm going to be out in the day etc but trying not to let past trauma dictate my whole entire life 😅

Thank you 😊

### Comment 1

Not a woman, but I've got a little anecdote that might help reassure you.

I remember this one time when I randomly decided I wanted to do something - I can't remember exactly what - but it involved about 30 mins of walking, and it was getting dark before I left. This was in a residential area, and I remember feeling somehow intimidated by the dimming light, shadowy path and the complete quiet. I did grow up in a much less safe country, so maybe that was related.

So there I was sort of jumping at shadows, and suddenly I came up upon a figure ahead.

...it was a Japanese schoolgirl. Completely alone, probably strolling home or something, walking along without a care in the world.

I felt silly after that.

### Comment 2

Been here for 2 weeks - no exaggeration, out of 50+ countries this is the safest place I think I've ever been. Had no issues with men, everyone is polite and helpful, and it's super clean.

### Comment 3

I’m a female who has lived in Japan for over two years now and it is a very safe country. Of course, there are bad people and the normal precautions (don’t take drinks from strangers in bars, stay to lit areas when walking alone at night, etc.) still apply, but things like hiking and going about daily life is very safe. In fact, I often bike home most evenings after dark and have never felt unsafe or scared. The biggest dangers are with things like potential groping on crowded trains or photos up skirts when going up stairs or escalators. Typically if it’s rush hour, there are women only cars you can take on trains to feel safe, though in the country side this is much less of an issue in general. The only places I’ve ever had unsafe situations were in night clubs and late night trains coming home from clubs, but it’s more or less the same thing as going to clubs in any country really.

### Comment 4

Hello, I’m a Japanese female. As someone who lived in the country for more than three decades, here are my thoughts.

First and foremost, Japan is very, very safe. I can’t emphasize that enough. I’ve never felt unsafe walking on the street in Osaka even after midnight. I’m still cautious, though, because you know, we never know. But you will soon realize you can relax in Japan, especially in the countryside.

One thing I’m going to have to say as a warning is that you want to avoid involving alcohol in the big cities in Japan if you want to be 150 % careful. I worked as a server at a bar and izakaya for a few years when I was young, and having drunk people was always a sign of some sort of trouble.

March is the beginning of the spring. It’s starting to feel a bit warm, but you will find some chilly and windy days. In Niigata, there may or may not be some snow left, but I’m not sure. Looking at what you want to do in Japan, I would recommend Yakushima. It’s a bit of a trip to get there, but you won’t regret. You will be surrounded by the full of old nature. I still remember its beauty after 25 years. The locals are so nice and friendly. You can fully trust them.

Enjoy your trip.

### Comment 5

I could be severely misguided but I personally think the rural areas in Japan is probably safer than the cities. I've heard from other female friends that they've been catcalled or stalked around Tokyo but haven't really heard this in the rural (granted I did live in the cities but not in the rural). That said, if it's during the day I think it's really safe!

