# PSA 2000 Yen bills are uncommon and sometimes rejected.

We exchanged our money at a large Canadian bank before traveling to Japan and ended up with 2000 yen notes. These are often not accepted at convenience stores or outside of tourist areas due to their rarity. We have had a few interesting interactions with people who were surprised to see it (showing coworkers or managers and double checking the watermark), and multiple stores and pharmacies who flat out refuse the bill without explanation. (in Japanese or English.)

If you do have 2000 yen notes, 7-11 stores with automated cash registers where you deposit your money into the machine accept them. We have used this to break them into smaller amounts since they have become quite inconvenient to use.

### Comment 1

I got a bunch of them on our last trip and found loading them onto my old Suica was really convenient as well.

### Comment 2

Some people really love them there. It’s like $2 bills in the US or 50 cent coins in Canada. You rarely see them, but when you do, you want to keep it.  

I too have a few and never had issues using them. Just don’t try to use them in vending machines as they will likely get rejected. But if you use them in touristy places, you should be fine.

### Comment 3

We also got a bunch of them before arriving in Japan but didn't have any problem using them. Used them easily loading up our Pasmo cards but we did get lots of surprised reactions from workers in shops and restaurants, people saying they're rare. We even saw one being sold for slightly more than 2,000 yen in a shop selling vintage coins and money lol. We also equated them to a $2 bill in the US.

### Comment 4

To date the only 2000 yen notes I've seen are the ones at money/coin shops, and the ones people bring with them to money shrines to bless in the shrine water. They never caught on but foreign countries are apparently sitting on a mountain of them.

### Comment 5

I have heard people say they had problem, but went to Japan in March-April and had no problem spending my 2000 notes (I got everything that the currency exchange office I went to had, they had better rate than my bank), maybe had a few comments that it’s been a long time since they saw one, never got them rejected,  it this time or any other time I had them.

