# Fellow Asian tourists that don't speak Japanese. Do you try to speak Japanese or do you just start off with English right out the gate?

Just wondering what other people's experiences are like. I'm sure Japanese natives talking to you like you speak Japanese isn't an experience unique to only Asian tourists, but it's probably a lot more common. I have no problems trying to speak Japanese since I know basic phrases, but I would rather not waste anyone's time while they fire back with turbo Japanese. Would it be better just to speak English on the offset to make it clear I'm a tourist?

### Comment 1

I always like greeting in the native language of whatever country I’m visiting, but after that I start speaking English because I started getting mistaken for being fluent or semi-fluent when all I can do is order off a menu

### Comment 2

I have a lot of fun speaking Japanese as much as I can until I can’t keep up anymore. Then I ask them to switch to English. Usually at the end of the conversation they compliment my Japanese with a smile. So I’m sure it’s fun for most Japanese speakers too when they see a foreigner using their language!

### Comment 3

I tried Japanese first, unless it's something important then I'll ask "sumimasen, eigoo daijioubu desu ka?" Depending on their answer I'll either whip out a translator or start using english.

### Comment 4

I'm ethnically half-Japanese and because the other half of my genetics is also Asian, people in Japan mistake me for a local all the time. I would judge my Japanese level to be about N5 - I know the basic phrases, I know the basic grammar, I know the basic vocab, but I'm nowhere near able to hold a real conversation.

For what it's worth, when they hear my Japanese accent isn't native, they automatically clue in that I'm a foreigner. How they respond is entirely dependent on the individual. Some keep going in rapid fire Japanese, others will slow down for me.

If you need to switch to English, just apologize and ask if they understand English. That's basically their hint that you're stuck and they need to either switch to English or to Google translate.

### Comment 5

Asian and look Japanese enough that Japanese people automatically start speaking to me in, as you say, turbo Japanese.

 I usually start with basic polite phrases in Japanese (sumimasen, ohaiyo gozaimaas, konnichiwa) sprinkled with "hai" and head bobbing to show that I'm listening. Once I say anything, Japanese people know that I'm a foreigner. But so many are surprised that I'm a foreigner that I can now recognize when they say  "really? You really aren't Japanese?!?"

However, my very favourite is when non-Asian tourists assume I'm Japanese. They're so surprised when I start jabbering away in fluent English and French, or very basic Spanish.

