# The black experience in Japan

Hello everyone,

I recently returned from a 10 day trip to Japan and it was absolutely one of the best experiences of my life. I’ve already found myself, 3 days back in the states, making initial plans for my return - hopefully in 2025.

I was in a group of 4 and was the only PoC. With my upbringing I’m accustomed to these circumstances so this aspect wasn’t not unusual for me. Living life as a black man in the US I, of course, thought how it would be to travel there as a PoC and researched this aspect via YouTube with mostly positive reviews. 

Upon my arrival there I would agree with these YouTube reviews however I couldn’t not help but to notice the stares I got in many places. When I met these stares, locals were quick to turn away. I dismissed it as “the rare black man sighting” so I wasn’t initially disturbed by it, but after awhile it began to be a bit uncomfortable as I am an introvert that does not like a lot of attention.

I want to emphasize that I did not feel marginalized. As someone who lives in the southern US I can easily feel this way in some places. However, Customer service and often times random strangers were tremendously nice and helpful. I just had the constant feeling of being “out of place”. Nonetheless, this did not deter my fun on the trip. I however just find that this aspect is not something I  can become accustomed to for extended periods of time.

I wrote this post to provide insight into other PoC who may be considering their first trip to Japan. Please don’t allow this to dissuade you from coming. Japan is a beautiful country worth visiting and I hope the US can eventually pick up on some general daily aspects of their lives

### Comment 1

I'm a South Asian dude— You can't miss me if we're on the same street in Japan, lol. Currently on my 2nd trip and that's exactly what my experience has been. 

Tokyo wasn't too bad, because I think they're used to a large amount of tourists. However I'm just finishing up in Tohoku, and you get stared at *a lot more* and will definitely stick out as a PoC with dark skin. But everyone is still polite, and I haven't had a single bad experience or felt that I was in danger in anyway (FYI, I'm coming from Canada. As a comparison, I had the exact opposite experience when I left Toronto to visit Northern Ontario—Not only did I get stared at over there, but I was met with open racism and feared for my safety).

I'm an introvert myself, and I totally feel you on the anxiety! Especially in rural/small towns, you get stared at from arrival at the station to your hotel/hostel—Every person on the street, every car window, every bus, every store—and it's just super draining to want to go out. 

I do feel as though I need to be on my best behaviour—Which is nuts because I'm actually a quiet, clean, and polite guy. But you can't help adjusting the way you handle yourself when every eye on the street is on you at some point, even if it's only for a few seconds.

That said, I'm still planning to come back to Japan for a third, fourth, fifth, or however many more times I can afford it. I really do love visiting this country.

### Comment 2

Fellow Black man here. Came back from Japan 1 month ago.

Had a fantastic time on a first time solo trip. If I got stares, I didn’t particularly notice because I was too busy appreciating *everything* in Japan seemingly alien to US - pristine streets…polite, courteous and friendly local people etc.

Like you, I’d done my research before going, so most things weren’t new to me. If I made eye contact with Japanese people, they didn’t hold it at all. If anything, I actually wanted to make that brief connection with people. I learned it’s considered rude to stare in Japan.

I have no complaints at all about treatment.

For reference, I was primarily in Tokyo and did a day trip to Hakone.

### Comment 3

I really like your post! I think being stared is common for any non-Asian people in general in Japan. I’m not POC, but I do get stared at a lot, especially in the more rural area I live in where there are almost no foreigners at all. If you struggle with anxiety or shyness, wearing a mask is fully socially acceptable in Japan and something I do when I feel sensitive about being stared at too much. You will still get stared at, but it lessens the anxiety because they aren’t really looking at your face fully. So when I’m alone on trains, I’ll put in headphones and wear a mask and I feel like I have a shield between me and the people who stare at me. ☺️

### Comment 4

I’m a woc, and I suspected I would be stared at in Japan when I went. I was talking to a friend who lived there for a time and also accompanied me on the trip and she said that because we went to popular cities - Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka - more and more people have exposure to people who don’t look like them. Which is a good thing. I saw a few black people when we went, too (just returned two days ago). 

Actually, I never felt like I was being stared at - people looked at me and looked away. People were very friendly. I actually got stared at more in South Dakota/my home country than in Japan.

### Comment 5

Thanks for sharing your perspective!! Just to share another view, I'm a black woman currently traveling through Japan. My husband (a white guy) and I have been here nearly two weeks now and we/ I haven't received a single stare or long glance. In all honesty, I was just commenting to my husband yesterday that despite wearing my hair out and natural the entirety of our trip so far, I haven't experienced anything other than kindness, politeness, and amazing customer service.

We have one more week here (for a total of three, traveling across various cities in the country), but for now, I can definitely say that I've been treated with more kindness and respect than I've found in certain parts of the U.S.(where I'm from!)

