# Things I wish I knew, even after spending a long time planning and research

Keep in mind this is just my wife’s and I experience for the time we went and the places we went . Tokyo, kyoto, osaka. 13 days total. Your results and thoughts may vary.  
1- before you run out of time, energy, or money, you will run out of steps. There were points where we couldnt walk anymore because our feet hurt. After the 2nd day we used mole skin to prevent the blisters from getting bigger. Walking 10 miles a day is a real thing even if we took a train anytime we could.  
1.5- bring your own pain medicine . we were having trouble finding any OTC pain medicine until we hit the airport on our way back.  
2- When you go out to eat and there is a little bell or button, push that to get service.  
2.5 - ask for a bill and assume you pay it up front .  
3- english is the 2nd best language to know both written and spoken. Only once did I have an encounter where someone in customer service spoke no english and a translator app had to be used.  
3.5 calculators are usually used to show you an amount owed so there is no need for them to write it down or for you to understand the japanese numbers they are saying  
4 - cash is not that important, most everywhere took cards and outside of one major restaurant and the luggage forwarding service, cash was never a requirement.   
4.5 Id still recommend small bills and change for vending machines and street food  
5- trains and subway sign for the most part are helpful but if you have to travel from a JR line to a different line than signs dont exist and/or are not very helpful.  
5.5 - google maps is not a catch all for traveling to trains as GPS has issues in buildings and there is alot of vertical traveling   
6- packing light. Stay at somewhere with a washing machine so you only have to have a few outfits  
7- things to always have on you. Passport. Pocket wifi. Cash. Pasmo card (on a lanyard) (or other transit card). Your phone. Your wallet.A portable battery to keep phone and wifi topped off.  
 I recommend a small backpack that you can wear on your front so you can cary all these things and not overload your pockets. If you have pockets I recommend cargo shorts with zippers or buttons so stuff doesnt fall out.  
8- konbini - these places are great for food or drinks 24/7. They might not speak english but the only question they will ask you is how many bags do you want and maybe if you bought cold food if they can warm it up for you. If you buy alcohol all you have to do is hit a prompt on the touch screen that will ask if you are over the drinking age.   


### Comment 1

I had the opposite experience in rural Japan. Zero English and all cash ! Just an fyi for those traveling off the beaten path. I Second the tip on bringing portable battery. Phone died and lost Google maps and gps while at
Shinjuku station

### Comment 2

Drug stores do have ibuprofen and acetaminophen. Just ask.

### Comment 3

Mine was bringing hand towels or paper towels in my purse.  They don't have paper towels in toilets.

### Comment 4

> 4 - cash is not that important

It's not important at all until you're in a situation where it's vitally important.

### Comment 5

Regarding your tips and a few more:

1.5 - There are plenty.  Though the brands in Japan are different than overseas. See my big hint below.

2.5 The bill is usually delivered with the last dish ordered.  It goes into a little holder on top of the table - OR - there is sometimes a slot at the edge of the table they stick it into and it's not obvious unless you see them do it.

3.5 Yes to avoid having to say the amount in English.  Having to count Yen in 100's, 1000's, and 10,000's gets tedious.  For very expensive items, they do this even to the natives, because saying the amount is considered gauche.

4.5 That PASMO/SUICA card is usually good for these machines and various stores as well.  Get a virtual one installed on your phone and charge it with a MC or AMEX (VISA does not work) and save your cash for when you need it.  You can use your phone to tap and pay instead of the card.

The big hint:

Go to [amazon.co.jp](https://amazon.co.jp) and set up an account.  If you are there for several days (or more) order items at your leisure from the hotel room (like OTC pain relievers, mosquito itch cream, or any item you don't want to buy and lug around all day).  They will deliver to the Lawson's or some other nearby convenience store.  Delivery times are usually 24-48 hours and they have no problem with your American credit card.

