# My airline is telling me to arrive 4 hours before departure at Narita. Is this normal?

I thought the usual recommendation was 2 hours for international flights, so I'm surprised they want me there so early. Do things usually take longer than normal at Narita?

What am I supposed to do there for 4 hours?

The airline is Air Canada, so not sure if this makes a difference.

**Edit:** Thanks to everyone for their help. I got there 2.5 hours before departure and it took 5 minutes for the bag drop, 5 minutes for security (Terminal 1), and 5 minutes for the customs/immigration. Everything was running smoothly and I didn't have to lineup for anything.

... And then the flight got delayed for 3 hours. So that's what I'm doing now, lol.

### Comment 1

Both times I’ve left Narita and Osaka I’ve shown up 2.5hr early and waited 2hrs

### Comment 2

For international, recommended is 4 hrs in case security is busy and if your gate is far. 2 hrs for domestic.

In my experience though, for both haneda and narita, it only took 1.5-2 hrs for bag check in, security, and portable wifi return. The airport terminals are not too big. For domestic, 1 hr tops

### Comment 3

Terminal 2 in Narita has so much shopping both outside and inside the secure area

### Comment 4

Could depend on the season too. I arrived a little under 2.5 hours before my flight at Haneda on April 2nd (basically peak cherry blossoms season) around 3 p.m. local time. It was packed. Had to check in a suitcase, which made it even worse because those lines were long and filled with confused travelers (myself included). The security line was so long it stretched to the doors heading outside the building. I got worried at this point, but security went by faster than I thought it would given how long the line was.  After everything was all said and done, I had about 45 minutes before my flight departed.

I have a trip in 3 weeks, so peak autumn leaves season, and I'm definitely going to budget 3-4 hours before departure time since I'm traveling with family this time around.

### Comment 5

Do you have star alliance gold? If so not only will you use a shorter line to check in you can just hang out in the Ana lounge. 

4hr seems excessive but don’t cut it to close you never know.

