# What do you buy for yourself/stock up on when you travel to Japan?

I know this is very personality/hobby dependent but just wanted to hear what other people get.

Personally I’m very into skincare so I’d get big batches of sunscreen (Biore, Canmake) and the SK II essence. 

I was also really into Zojirushi thermoses and Matcha KitKat but now you can also get those abroad for a minor markup. Same for all the things I used to get at Muji or Uniqlo.

### Comment 1

Honestly my plan the next time I go to Japan is to go with an empty suitcase and a lot of money since the skincare, food, and clothing are all things that I think would be best to grab while there lol

### Comment 2

Snacks at don quijote.  I like  the Tokyo cheese factory as well and Royce chocolate which u can get at airport

### Comment 3

[deleted]

### Comment 4

Just came back from Japan two weeks ago with a ton of makeup and skincare (17 sunscreens!😆). I also went a little nuts getting all my greeting cards for the next year at Tokyu Hands. Such beautifully made cards that would easily cost 2-4 times the price at home. Some of them are so intricate and adorable they’re gifts in themselves. Last time I visited I didn’t recall them having such a good selection of English cards but now they do! 

When we first arrived I hadn’t thought I would buy anything at Uniqlo since we have it at home, but then I stopped in and noticed the airism underwear and sweaters I love usually retail for twice the price in Canada, so that was another tax free purchase while I stocked up. Import taxes I guess!

### Comment 5

When I visited Japan, I didn't even gave buying neither KitKats nor Figurines any thoughts.

I returned home with a fuckload of both. Good Lord. 

Lemon and salt, Ice Cream, Matcha, Milk & Tea, Sake, Sweet Potato, Cracker... I'm amazed at the variety and how much do they love KitKats back there.

Also, Don Quijote. If they ever create a fan club, you betcha I'm signing in.

If I ever return I will no doubt stock on the aforementioned stuff again, but also clothing. So much quality over there! I bought a pair of cheap khakis at Don Quijote and God I've never felt so comfortable wearing pants in my entire life.

10/10 would recommend.

