# What is the best activity/experience you had in Japan?

Hi everyone! We are going to Japan next March and we definitely want to do something unique that leaves us wowed. In your opinion, what's the best experience or unique activity you've done in Japan?
It can be a Sumo tournament, a special Onsen trip, a restaurant/food, a tour....

Let me know :) !

### Comment 1

Walking random quiet streets,far into neighborhoods. Watching normal life happen around you. Beautiful.

### Comment 2

If you’re a little adventurous, the Shimanami Kaido cycling route from Omomichi to Imabari - some of the most beautiful scenery I’ve ever seen. Great food, get to experience the peacefulness of the countryside, and amazingly safe and easy to do as well.

### Comment 3

For me, which won’t be for most, so far it has been a live New Japan Pro Wrestling show. Better than the show itself was watching the crowd get so into it. Everyone in crowds on the streets and on the trains have been so quiet and well reserved, but they got loud and excited during the wrestling show and it was a blast to see. Even sat next to a fellow American who wasn’t even into pro wrestling who got really into it. 

Outside that, food wise I loved The French Toast Factory Akiba or Ribera Steakhouse.

### Comment 4

- Miyajima. Spend a day there, plan for sunset shots of the torii. 
- Tokyo Teamlab
- Hiking up any mountain (extra points if there are shrines up there)

### Comment 5

One that I could definitely recommend if you're an active traveler and visiting Japan when it's not too cold or warm, is to do the Kumano Kodo hike, specifically the Nakahechi route. Make sure that you plan all your stays in advance, as you'll need to break the hike down into multiple days.

For me, it was the perfect combination of tranquility, nature, history and getting a glimpse into the Japanese rural life. Make sure not to rush it and to really take the time to enjoy it all.

