# What are some apps you found useful on your trip to Japan?

nan

### Comment 1

Smartex for Shinkansen tickets

Suica app to help link my wallet’s suica card with the Smartex app 

Google maps for finding my way around

Google translate for reading things

### Comment 2

Google Maps and Google Translate

### Comment 3

Navi time for train schedule and DiDi for cabs.

### Comment 4

Google Maps and Google Translate I considered absolutely essential. Just be mindful for Maps routes in more rural areas because we got some weird ones. But other than that, in the bigger cities it was the best for transit. 

Japan Travel by Navitime is great for looking up train routes. 

SmartEX for reserving Shinkansen tickets. 

DiDi is the one to go with if you want to do a taxi/rideshare. ~~Do not use Go, you need a Japanese number to use it.~~

Highly recommend ChargeSPOT if you don’t have a reliable power bank. You can rent them for a reasonable price from almost any conbini, plus tons of restaurants and entertainment places. They come with three cables as well. It was a lifesaver for me when my power bank stopped working. 

If you’re going to teamLab, download the apps before you go.

### Comment 5

In addition to what everyone else has said, ChatGPT. Its new voice conversation feature is amazing. I recently returned from a 10-day trip to Tokyo, where I used this feature as a pocket tour guide. Upon visiting Nijo Castle in Kyoto, Japan, I informed it that I was entering the castle and asked it to act as my guide. It provided a history of the castle and details about the entrance gates. When I went to go into the castle proper, I told it I was about to walk in and it instructed me to remove my shoes and store them — a requirement. It then inquired if I could hear the floors squeaking, which I could. Acknowledging this, it shared the history of the 'nightingale floors', designed as a security measure to alert guards to any footsteps. This experience felt like a scene from 'Her'. The feature allowed me to delve into the details of my surroundings and even explore related topics, such as the Shinto religion. There were few issues where it would pick up snatches of others conversation and react to it, but I was able to stop it with a tap and then restart a natural conversation with it via my airpods. I also used it to plan my routes around the city from my hotel, identifying points of interest in a circular path would bring me out and back at the end of the day. It served as a translator too, offering more natural and polite Japanese phrases than Google Translate, confirmed by native Japanese speakers I met up with.

I highly recommend trying this feature in museums and other places where one might typically consult a tour guide

