# Takayama is so beautiful I’m almost tempted to skip Kyoto and stay longer!

This is basically a Takayama appreciation thread. I just arrived Monday from Tokyo and man, it has been amazing! 

The colours in the surrounding forests are just incredibly, almost laughably, beautiful. You’d think you are in a dream of what autumn should be, or something like Rivendel! 

The food has been amazing as well, so many amazing places where you can eat like a king for next to nothing!

To give an example, I went to this small restaurant called キッチンあきがみ. There was no English menu and the owner didn’t speak English. But we made it work! And I had 5 course meal with an AMAZING hide beef steak for 35 euro! Just smiling, nodding and a bit of google translate made it so we could communicate!

Also, knowing how to say “it was delicious” in Japanese (oishkattades) pays off in spades and is enormous ice breaker.

I’m almost tempted to skip my three days in Kyoto and stay here longer. I just feel so good here!

Some other recommendations:
- The risu no mori squirrel park: beautiful little park where chipmunks and squirrels walk around you and you can feed them. It’s about an hour walk from Takayama city center and you can then walk through the forest to hida folk village and honmura castle.
- The rescue cat cafe: just saw a brochure of this in my hotel and checked it out today. Very nice place that takes in rescue cats.
-  center4 burgers: this one has been recommended a lot but yeah, it’s delicious and cozy!

### Comment 1

Yes, I really like Takayama, and I think it’s a pity that so many tourist itineraries nowadays seem to entirely overlook Takayama and Hida-Takayama folk village in favour of visiting Shirakawa-go. 

Takayama has a nice feel to it, is small enough to feel friendly and cosy, but big enough to have lots of different choices of places to eat and various places to see, including the old town and the folk village. 

We were there on Christmas Day about six years ago and were walking around the old town when it started snowing, with the snow drifting down and slowly blanketing the town. My kids were so excited and they still talk about the time we had a white Christmas in Takayama. Then we went back to the ryokan and had a hot bath and toasted marshmallows at the irori (sunken fireplace) in the main room. 

It’s a really nice place.

### Comment 2

My first ever ryokan experience 12 years ago was in Takayama, which was also my first earthquake! It was a 5.5 which was pretty big and caused the trains to stop service.

The central alps of Japan is something special but only really for people who likes to take it slow.

The rivendell autumn thing isn't unique to Takayama though, it can be be had in Tokyo and is basically everywhere in Tohoku too.

### Comment 3

Takayama is my fav place to visit in japan! I love walking the streets and exploring all the cute shops. The hida beef is also amazing!!

### Comment 4

I loved Takayama so much! Lovely historic district and such great food. My fun surprises were a one-man Ramen shop near the station that was incredible, a great little antiques shop in the historic district, and I loved the fact that the 5:00 bells played Dvorak all through the town.

### Comment 5

Thank you for sharing! I have 2 nights unbooked at the end of this trip. I guess I'm doing takayama(!)

