# Anyone else just really dislike Kyoto

I was told by everyone how great Kyoto is, so i booked 7 days here, but im seriously dreading the experience so far, the people seem kinda elitist and odd, not to mention how tightly packed every single street is. Would i benefit from checking out early and heading to Osaka?

### Comment 1

Kyoto is great, the amount of people visiting at one time isn’t.

### Comment 2

Go to Kanazawa. It’s about 2.5 hours on the train. There are tourists, but a fraction of the number as in Kyoto. The people there aren’t burnt out on tourism so everyone is extremely friendly. You can see beautiful cultural sites and eat some amazing sushi. Kanazawa is known for seafood. I was just there for 4 nights and loved every minute of it. I recommend it if you’d like to be in a beautiful place with fewer tourists and more laid back attitude.

### Comment 3

Hello, I’m Japanese who loves Osaka and doesn’t like Kyoto. I have lived in both places for many years, and I especially couldn’t stand the locals in Kyoto.

I feel as if they still carry too much pride in the fact that Kyoto was once the capital city of the country. I can say that from their attitude, which is quite sarcastic and snobby. The way they speak and what they truly mean behind it are quite difficult for even other Japanese people to understand. For instance, when they say that your children are being playful, they mean that you want to shut your kids up. When they say that you are wearing a nice watch, they are telling you to mind how long you keep talking. I never get nor want to get that kind of mindset. Their attitude always makes me question who they really think they are. This tendency is more so in middle age to senior individuals. I like the food scene and some places in Kyoto, but those can’t be enough reasons to visit there because I can easily get a lot of stuff from Kyoto online these days.

On the other hand, Osakians are very honest straightforward. And they are super funny. I like that type of easygoing people. Food is amazing yet reasonable. This is why I always stay in Osaka even when I need to go visit Kyoto from time to time; there are some friends of mine in Kyoto.

In addition, pretty much everywhere in Kyoto is super tight and crowded. You might think the city is rich because of the huge boom in tourism, but the reality is that they have been so close to going bankrupt. This is why the infrastructure in Kyoto is very dated.

Kyoto is the last place I want to live again in Japan.

### Comment 4

We skipped most of the major temples in Kyoto and researched several lesser known ones…ones where we were some of the few and had amazing, quit experiences. Even got a Goshuin book and loved collecting those. 

Look up lesser known places and you will enjoy so much more. 

Many along philosophers path arishiyama and all over.

### Comment 5

I've been there numerous times and lived there during covid lockdown. It was always my favorite city ever, so beautiful. Ever since Japan reopened its borders the tourists came back in double and while it was certainly a pain before covid it's even worse now. I know my favorite places and rarely see crowded streets anymore in Kyoto because my favorite spots aren't where everyone is going.

Before booking a vacation I suggest you figure out what you like and dislike. Kyoto is "traditional japan" (or rather "as traditional as it gets"). If you don't  care about old Japan, don't go to Kyoto. I you're into crazy modern fast-paced Japan, go to Tokyo and Osaka. They won't be any less crowded though. Japan just is crowded at all times, especially during spring and fall (aka cherry blossoms and fall foliage). If you don't like crowds, don't go to Japan or stay in rural towns.

