# I feel like people in Osaka are purposefully banging into me with force is this a thing?

Currently in Osaka. Arrived yesterday and within 24 hours I’ve been banged into around 10 times with force that’s so strong I’m feeling like it has to be on purpose? 

I’ve been traveling around Japan for weeks and visited Tokyo, Kyoto and Hiroshima and not experienced anything like it. I’m also solo traveling and very aware of making sure I don’t get into anyone’s space and if I do I apologise. 

I’m a solo female traveler and it’s getting frustrating. Earlier today one so bad happened that the man doing it used a trolley type thing and it knocked me over. When I fell over people around me helped me up and he didn’t even look at me or acknowledge he’d done it. 

Is this a common thing in Osaka or am I blindly doing something wrong without realising it? I’d like to figure out as I feel like i’m constantly on edge 😭 and being in a foreign country alone, it doesn’t seem worth standing up for myself.

### Comment 1

Not just common, it has a name in japanese. "Butsukariya"

Sorry but it looks like you got unlucky, they target women.

### Comment 2

Do not retaliate. They have guilty until proven innocent system and will be biased against you.

### Comment 3

I had this happen to me in the Tokyo Station (5'2" white woman) and I learned very quickly to do the "linebacker" manuever. When you see it coming, hunch down and put your shoulder forward. Noticed the perpetrator men are shocked by that. Happens a lot when going between trains when they think they can walk it off in the other direction without repercussion.

### Comment 4

In 2015, visiting Japan for 2 months, I was shoved very hard against my right shoulder while walking inside an underground train station in Tokyo. It was a Japanese male who shoved me intentionally for no reason. I look Japanese but I’m not. So I think it can happen to any vulnerable-looking female, western or not. I’m still pissed about it and disappointed it’s still happening 8 years later in 2023. Don’t the Japanese have other ways of relieving stress?

### Comment 5

Yeah it’s a thing , it happens all over Japan :( they target women mostly , be safe !!

