# Reminder: Don’t eat on the regular trains

A tourist eating on the Yamanote just dropped their whole burger and fries on the floor by Priority Seating. 

There is ketchup everywhere. Because the Priority Seat flooring is red, locals getting on don’t see the ketchup. A lady in heels just slipped hard and face planted, and people stepping over the food is tracking it everywhere. People are trying to live here and keep things clean. 

You can eat on Shinkansens. 

Don’t eat on regular trains.

### Comment 1

Also why didn't the tourist clean up the mess?  Or at least warn people of the food on the floor?

### Comment 2

As a tourist, it pays to be overly cautious in Japan. if you think that behavior could be considered impolite, just don't do it. Best to pay attention to what the locals are doing or not doing.

### Comment 3

I saw something somewhere else where it's considered impolite to walk around eating also. Is this true? Where do people eat their food if they're grabbing something to go or just wanting to eat a banana or something?

### Comment 4

No sane person would eat food on a metro train in the United States either

### Comment 5

It's more of a young folk thing. Both in Japan and out. It's extremely rare even for tourists to be chowing down a full hamburger meal on a local train. And it's not just tourists who may make a mess. I can't count how times I've seen Japanese leave bottles and cans (more often than not it being beer and chu-hi) on trains, not to mention vomit! cough* Shibuya Meltdown on Instagram *cough* *cough*

I can't get upset because I've had my fair share of times were I was commuting and had no time to sit and eat somewhere so I had to gobble up something while at a platform and on a train. Never during rush hour though!

The crazy crowds in the city never bothered me until I turned 30 and moved out to Saitama, it's hard to go back now. When I was young I actually enjoyed being in large crowds, made me feel alive and human for some reason(speaking of festivals, concerts/events, and clubs).

