# New tips maybe

Here are some tips after my recent trip last week from questions others and I had while I was researching:

1. Cheap luggage: ameyoko market for 6000Y medium size larger than 4800Y carryon.  At least 2 stores had them.  Cheapest I found and it wasn’t the best luggage but it works.  

2. Check your train as you may jump on an express that will skip your stop.  If google maps says 2:15pm train, don’t jump on the 2:11pm in front of you unless you confirm it’s the one you need.

3.  Suica IPhone: easy to create a card and load with Apple Pay.  Yes, you can load it with yen but those machines are not conveniently everywhere.  

4.  Luggage transport: if you have a 2 day trip in between, forward your luggage with your hotel’s help.  Cost $16 from Osaka to Tokyo and took 2 days 1 night.  You need the confirmation number of your next hotel and the address so your current hotel can call and help your next next hotel confirm your stay instead of receiving anonymous bags.  If you have a large group, you can lump it together into one order.

5.  JR Pass: you can have one person take all passports and redeem them all.  Did this at Narita. 

6.  Wifi box: double check your pickup location is or you will be running around from terminal to terminal and floor to floor.  Japan wireless has a 25% off code online.

7. Ubigi: I preferred this and had consistent data.  Find coupons online.  If you’re slick, refer one person so you get a 50% off coupon then order yours.  

8.  Asakusabashi: small lively area convenient to Asakusa, akihabara, Tokyo station, Ueno.  Check it out.  A great base if you’re touring the east side. 

9. The tourist spots are shitholes right now.  Dotonbori and asakusa are crammed.  Heard all of Kyoto is stuffed with tourists local and foreign.  Kiyomizudera was crazy busy.  Visit the nearby shrines.  Have backup plans.  Go super early or have fun going at a snail’s pace.

10. Tourists are inconsiderate and unaware of their surroundings.  For fuck’s sake, don’t stand in the middle blocking both sides of the walkway then be mad when you get bumped.  Also, it’s crowded as fuck, you’re going to get untintentionally bumped.  Stand to the side and eat and not in the middle of the walkway.  If you don’t speak Japanese, don’t get frustrated at the worker cause they can’t understand you.  Don’t be these people.

11. Den den town: another akihabara but in Osaka.  There’s also a kitchen street hidden there that had better prices than kappabashi.

12.  Chu-his: go to don quixote for the best prices and more flavors.  Put them in the fridge and you have breakfast.  Apple or peach are the best. 

13. Separate your trash.  Plastic, combustibles are typical.  Also if you see a funnel like shape on the trash can, it’s to dump out your liquids and ice first.  

14. Train etiquette: don’t wear your backpack as you can bump people and it takes up space during rush hour.  For god’s sake, give up your seats to the elderly or mothers.  

15. If your group is standing outside being loud, you may be refused entrance.  Follow decorum. 

16. Get a convenient cheap plastic Japanese coin holder holds 5.  You build up coins and it’s useful at the konbini and for not chucking away 100Y coins instead of 1Y.  

17. Getting rid of Yen and suica/pasmo balances.  At the airport at souvenir shops, I was able to pay with all the balance on my suica, then dumped all my coins in, then paid the rest with credit card. 

There are probably other things but these were important to me.

### Comment 1

For #3, you can load ICs at any 7-11, Fami-Mart, or Lawson. Probably other konbinis too but I never tried. I believe you can also load IC at the 7-11 ATM. Husband used an Android but we never had trouble charging.

\#11, hell yes. We did Osaka first and really enjoyed Den-den town. We were there on a Thursday afternoon and the arcades were blissfully empty with only a few groups of high schoolers. Very easy to shop. 

Akihabara was gross. Everywhere was packed and all the stores sold the exact same stuff for the exact same 10 anime. Barely spent time there since we already hit Den-den town.

### Comment 2

>The tourist spots are shitholes right now. Dotonbori and asakusa are crammed. Heard all of Kyoto is stuffed with tourists local and foreign. Kiyomizudera was crazy busy. Visit the nearby shrines. Have backup plans. Go super early or have fun going at a snail’s pace.

I love when tourists complain there are other tourists lol

### Comment 3

Chu-hi for breakfast? You like getting properly started for the day don’t you.

### Comment 4

Definetely when recharging your Suica, select "other amount" . 
That way you can get rid of coins.

### Comment 5

Apple Pay for IC does not work with Visa. Make sure you have an Amex or Mastercard which doesn’t charge foreign transaction fees.

IC = Suica, ICOCA

