# Tips I wish I knew before starting our trip in Kyoto and Tokyo and ones I'm grateful I knew

# Before Trip:

* Jetlag: Timeshifter app highly recommended. I usually have tough jetlag whenever I travel to Asia from the US, would take me 2-3 days to adjust. With Timeshifter, I had one instance at 2 PM the first day where I felt a little sleepy, that was it! I didn't use melatonin pills. To avoid sunlight at prescribed times, I put on sunglasses and snowboarding goggles (snowboarding goggles only indoors otherwise you'll get stares in public)
* My Visa card wasn’t working to add yen to my virtual SUICA card on my Apple Wallet. Had to use American Express. You can test this before the trip by adding yen after you create a new virtual SUICA card in your Apple Wallet. I wish I did.
* For cellular and data, if you're planning on using Google Fi, make sure you activate it in your home country. I read online you won't be able to activate it outside of your home country.
   * Google Fi was not working the first day for me in Japan for cellular data. Did troubleshooting with email tech support. One of the key things was to turn off my primary SIM card entirely. If it was on, Google Fi cellular data just wouldn’t work.
   * Once Google Fi cellular data worked, it was seamless. I had great coverage in Kyoto, Uji, Yugawara, and Tokyo.
   * Great speeds for what I needed, I could watch YouTube videos with 1080 resolution.
* Certain apps are region locked to Japan. To get around this on iPhone, you can create a new Apple ID in the Japan region. I created mine on the Apple website, and remember only needing an email for verification, not a Japanese phone number. I used this to download the Kura Sushi app, made a reservation, and was able to save myself waiting in line.
* Trip planning: YouTube videos helped with a lot of my trip planning and figuring out what to do.
* Make sure to fill out Visit Japan Web [https://vjw-lp.digital.go.jp/en/](https://vjw-lp.digital.go.jp/en/) to get the QR codes used for clearing customs. It made the immigrations and customs process really fast.
   * Only 1 place in my trip accepted the QR code for tax free, so filling that out had limited utility.
   * You can fill out all the Visit Japan Web webforms in the airport or on the plane (if you have internet).

# Transportation:

* I used my virtual SUICA card in Apple Wallet to pay for all my public transportation expenses in Kyoto and Tokyo.
* We calculated our train usage in our trip and found that the JR pass was not worth it. So we bought Narita Express and Shinkansen tickets separately.
* For Narita Express going to Tokyo, sit on the right side for a better view.
* Orimasu 降ります(おります) is one of the most useful phrases in public transit. It means I’m getting off. In packed trains and buses, people immediately start moving out of the way if you say that. 
   * Note: You don't have to say anything when getting off a train or bus. But when you need to say something because it may be packed and you'd like people to move out of the way,  Orimasu 降ります(おります) and Sumimasenすみません both work.

# The most useful apps:

* Google Translate Camera Lens feature, which provides a translation overlaid directly on video or photo. I used it a lot to translate the Japanese menus at all the restaurants I ate at.
* ChatGPT was the most helpful for when I needed to get an English to Japanese translation. For example, how to ask a question in Japanese in a way that sounds natural. The challenge with Google translate when going from English to Japanese is that the translation can be too literal.
   * Thanks to ChatGPT, I was also able to make reservations in Japanese on the phone, as well as cancel reservations on the phone, whereas previously I had never done so.
* Google maps to figure out all of my navigation in Japan.
* Protip: Bring a portable battery to charge your phone. I was using apps quite often and had to charge my phone from a portable battery everyday.

# Food

* Tabelog was my main source of finding food that Japanese people thought were good. I never would have discovered my favorite restaurants on the trip if it weren’t for Tabelog. There would be instances where something on Google maps would be 4.6, but would have an average rating on tabelog. Surprisingly, the reverse was true quite often. I found the correlation between Google map rating and Tabelog rating to be pretty weak.
   * The people giving Tabelog ratings can be pretty harsh, it's out of 5 stars. Anything around 3.5 is considered good. More than 3.5 is great. I rarely found something above 3.9 that was in my budget.
* Protip: Find out geographically where you’ll be in the trip, then use Tabelog to find all highly rated restaurants in that area. You can sort by descending rank in Tabelog. Add those restaurants to Google maps. That way when you’re on your trip, you can check Google maps to see which restaurants are nearby that you added from Tabelog.
* Make sure you check what restaurants or places close before you go. For example, Tsukiji is closed on Wednesdays.
* Asahi beer tastes completely different in Japan vs where I purchase it in the US. It’s sweeter and less bitter.
* This isn't true for all restaurants, but in our experience sometimes there were items on the Japanese menu that were not on the English menu.
   * For example at a restaurant I went to, they had several drinks on the Japanese menu not on the English menu. Luckily I could read some Japanese and ordered a Kyoto Gin in a highball style. I loved the Gin so much that I bought a bottle back home with me.

# Crowds

* We went in one of the busiest weeks during Thanksgiving. The key was to arrive early. Pick one destination per day you want to have a less crowded experience, and arrive there early to beat the crowds. We found this to save us lots of time in Kiyomizu Dera temple (7 AM) and Arashiyama (8 AM)
* If you know a restaurant is popular and you want to save yourself waiting in line for restaurants, get there before the restaurant opens. We were in Kyoto during the peak of the autumn season, and we got to Nakamura Tokichi Honten in Uji 16 mins before they opened. There was a line in already, and we were seated 24 mins after the restaurant opened. People that arrived later had to wait more than 1-2 hours.

# Misc

* Sagano Romantic Train:
   * I was checking a month in advance and could not find any available tickets. They release more tickets the closer you get to the date. I was able to reserve mine online a week before the date.
   * You want even numbered seats for the best view (right side of train when considering the train moving in forward direction)
* If you're going here: [https://yusai.kyoto/en/](https://yusai.kyoto/en/), more tickets become available closer to the day of. I checked a month in advance and there was nothing. The morning I arrived at Arashiyama, I found lots of tickets available at different time slots.
   * You want to pick the earlier slot if you're going on a busy week like I was. Our reservation time was at 9:30 and there were 20 people in front of us. When we left at 10:30, the entrance line tripled in size.
   * Also, I highly recommend it if you love photos. They were some of the most beautiful photos of the autumn leaves we took on our trip.
* Protip in Uji: watch out for caffeine. I'm very sensitive to caffeine, and I had two cups of strong matcha tea, one at Nakamura Tokichi Honten, another at a tea ceremony I participated in afterwards. There was also matcha in all the desserts I ate in Uji, and I drank several cups of Sencha tea as well. I was so caffeinated that I could not sleep that night after my Uji day trip, I laid in bed awake the whole night.
* If you’re a runner, I highly recommend running. I particularly enjoyed running in Kyoto in Gion and along the Kamo River in the morning. Other fun runs:
   * From our shukubo in Kyoto Higashiyama Ward to Uji for our Uji day trip. About 8-9 miles.
   * Shinjuku to Teamlab Planets to start off our day in the Ginza area. About 7-8 miles.

### Comment 1

I'm on day 4 of my trip and one tip for everyone: take care of your feet. My dawgs are barking and might have to take a day to recover.

### Comment 2

I’ve had so many good meals at just random places I went to. Stood in a few lines and was like yah that was good but didn’t blow me away. 

Don’t be too concerned with going to the super high rated or popular places. You will eat good food all over the place.

### Comment 3

Can you say more about using ChatGPT to translate? That's a trick I've never heard of. Do you use the ChatGPT app (or a paid version)? How do you get it to translate and does it speak the translation like Google Translate?

### Comment 4

I just went to Kyoto last week and your tips are spot on. I only did one destination early in the morning in Kyoto before going to a different city to visit.

Another resource to help gauge the timing on when to visit certain popular destinations in Kyoto is the city's official congestion forecast:
https://global.kyoto.travel/en/comfort/

I finally got to use this, and went to busy spots just to gauge the accuracy and it's fairly accurate.

### Comment 5

This is usually how Tabelog reviews go and yeah they can be randomly harsh for no reason lol: 

>Food and staff was amazing but it was raining outside 3/5.

Also I find google maps to be semi reliable if most of the review are in Japanese. If it's a lot of good review in English then there's a good chance it's just be average. Foreigners just rate on a different scale.

