# Just got back from japan and one of the biggest tips I learnt is don't listen to reviews

It was crazy the amount of times I looked something up and so many people were saying how bad something was and turn out to be the great. For example pokemon cafe was a big one with most reviews I saw saying how the food was terrible and their experience was bad. The food was great and the atmosphere was cool yes the food was expensive but its pokemon, we found google reviews to be more accurate so my tip if you want to do something just do it and not worry about what others say make your own mind up and enjoy the experience good or bad

### Comment 1

Japanese people review restaurants way more harshly than anywhere else. A 3.5 stars restaurant would easily be a 4.8+ in my country...

### Comment 2

IMO the difference between Japanese and American reviews is this:

🇺🇲: Quick service, no complaints, good food 5/5
🇯🇵: Quick service, no complaints, good food 3/5

There's some translating needed when evaluating food reviews.

### Comment 3

As a black man one of thee biggest I got was the "rampant" racism from the Japanese. If I had listened I would've never gone there
It was thee best experience ever.

### Comment 4

I found that most places frequented by travelers have really inconsistent reviews. This seems to especially be true of hotels. One person's "Older building, but really well kept, with a great central location and friendly service. 5 stars." is another person's "On a noisy street and desperately in need of a remodel. Staff doesn't speak English and wouldn't do my laundry. 2 stars."

### Comment 5

It depends. There are a lot of top tier things in Japan so things like Pokémon cafe are „worse“ than other restaurants.

That does not mean you will enjoy it nevertheless if it is something you like. 

People will rave about Pokémon or other popular things but I do not give a fuck about that. I know what I like.

