# People who have visited japan, how did you honestly feel about Osaka?

Currently back from a month long solo trip to Japan. I visited quite a lot of places and out of them all Osaka was my least favourite. I had some bad experiences and found the people to be extremely rude. There was also an instance I posted about on here previously where I got pushed to the ground. Whenever I’ve shared my experience or how I’ve felt with people I met on my travels who were also traveling japan or people I’ve met since I got back home the general response has been how they also didn’t like Osaka and part of me just feels like well why did nobody tell me about this before 😭 i’d honestly say if all my hotel stay wasn’t paid in full and non refundable I would of left and went to another city. 

Part of me maybe just thinks it’s not the best place for solo travel. I could just be a fun place to visit with a group?

### Comment 1

Osaka is by far my favorite city in Japan, and I’ve traveled all over. Amazing food and shopping, cozier and more down to earth than Tokyo feels to me, fewer tourists than nearby Kyoto, nice proximity to a bunch of other good towns and cities, and more walkable than other cities I’ve visited in Japan. It’s almost always my base in Japan these days unless I have a real reason to be in Tokyo or Fukuoka instead.

Everyone will have a different experience though. I’d be quick to tell you how much I dislike Kyoto, but there are some people who absolutely adore it. We all like different things.

### Comment 2

Osaka was, surprisingly, my favorite city in my Japan trip (Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka), mostly because the local people we met in Osaka seemed the most friendly by far: fellow diners at restaurants, or groups at arcades playing games, or bar patrons joining our tables. 

Everyone in my travel group (4 American friends) agreed it felt like this:

Tokyo = more similar to NYC energy, stunning, but lots of fast-lifestyle rushing 

Osaka = more similar to California energy, still a big city but more laid-back and casual people

Kyoto = truly extreme tourist crowds (this was mid to late November), and the locals seemed a little formal/reserved 

With that said, our travel style in Osaka was less about very specific sights/destinations, and more about trying to make Japanese friends as much as we could (three of the four of us Americans had taken a basic Japanese-language class in the US, and were focused on practicing speaking Japanese and befriending people). 

When it comes to “local friendliness,” everyone is going to have a different experience based on luck, chance, etc., and I’m sure this applies to most cities around the world. But Osakans were so friendly that even when when a mixed-gender group of us went to an X-rated vintage movie theater (in Shinsekai, Osaka) for shits and giggles, the other patrons were chatty and warm with us before and after enjoying a weird 70s adult movie!

### Comment 3

Loved Osaka but I have to admit it was definitely more of a night city than a day city. I think the ideal day is Kyoto during the day then Osaka at night

### Comment 4

If you set Tokyo as the baseline of what you expect all of Japan to be, then you go to Osaka with that expectation, you’ll definitely be disappointed. Tokyo is not “Japan” and Osaka is definitely not Tokyo.

I did study abroad in Tokyo during undergrad, then I lived and worked in Osaka for 3 years. I’ve been back in the states for many years now, Osaka is one of my favorite prefectures in Japan. I go back to Japan about once a year and always spend most of my time there reconnecting with friends. Also, my wife is from Osaka.

Osaka takes great pride in being a complete outlier within Japan. You see it in their food, their style, their culture and their dialect. Osaka is historically more of a merchant town so the people are very direct, frank and aggressive. They love to tell off-color jokes and have no respect for you if you don’t have a clever comeback. Tokyo people are literally scared of their dialect because they’ll casually use terms like “I’ll kick your ass”in normal conversation. Some of the craziest, and most interesting people I know are from Osaka.

### Comment 5

Didn't care for it the first time, hated it the second time. Tokyo over Osaka any day

