# What extremely famous places would you say are overrated and what places are worth the hype?

nan

### Comment 1

Hiroshima Peace Memorial and museum are unforgetttable.

### Comment 2

Osaka castle (inside) is overrated. Himeji was a lot more fun imo

### Comment 3

Kamakura is an underrated day trip, especially if you like temples and don’t have time to stray too far from Tokyo.  Beyond the great temples, the most popular of which you can easily squeeze into a few hours, there’s fun street food/shopping and the beach.  Plus, the Enoshima Electric Railway is an interesting way to get around.  We took it basically just for fun to see the coast.

### Comment 4

Arashiyama Grove. Horribly packed after 9am. Not worth it. Opt for Kodai-ji Temple instead. There is a bamboo forest there as well and it's typically not packed.

Edit: on a side note if you do spend time in Arashiyama I high recommend taking a cab up to Otagi nenbutsu-ji temple early at opening and then walking down through Arashiyama. 

Temple is absolutely beautiful, tranquil really unique. For enough away from the crowds where there isn't many people and you can enjoy a really nice walk down. Probably one of the highlight of my trip.

### Comment 5

I found Miyajima island in Hiroshima to definitely be worth the hype. Didn't actually get to spend as much time there as I would've liked, but it definitely lived up to its reputation as one of Japan's most scenic spots imo. The Tori gate in the sea is beautiful and unique, the island itself and the forrest is beautiful and nice for walking, and the view from the top of the ropeway is absolutely stunning. 

Also really liked Todai-ji in Nara. The big buddha statue is really a spectacle, the surrounding park is lovely, and the museum is small but interesting and gives some info on the interesting history of the particular bhuddist school there.

To add something underrated, I recommend  Yamanobe no Michi in Nara. It's japan's oldest recorded road and a great walking route with some nice points of interest along it and a bit off the beaten track so very few tourists from abroad.

