# Very constipated traveling in Japan - looking for both short and long term solutions

Every time I come to Japan, I always get very constipated. I arrived at the end of November and will be staying here until mid-January. I need 1) a short term fix to my current constipation, and 2) a longer term more sustainable solution to prevent constipation. 

Things I have tried for a short term fix
- tons of water and tea a day (I feel this isn’t helping anymore, I pee within 30mins of drinking more)
- Senna tablets (a laxative)
- lots of caffeinated coffee throughout the day
- fruits (apples, oranges, bananas) 
- vegetables (napa cabbage, spinach, lotus root, wakame seaweed)
- yogurt 
- daily barley fiber tablet
- daily packet of 清治 to try and cleanse out my digestive system 
- I walk 15-20K steps a day

It’s been a week and I’ve been able to poop once, but only partially. I haven’t been able to break the constant sensation of feeling like a giant water balloon. 

I’ve read all the previous Reddit threads about constipation in Japan. I will try Yakult and plum juice later today, but otherwise feel like I’m running out of potential solutions. I’m hoping to buy Miralax / Movicil, but am not sure where in Japan I can buy this. 

Does anyone have any ideas what might be causing my constipation? This keeps happening every time I come to Japan, but not in other countries I travel to! My guess is Japanese rice, but I eat rice all the time as part of my daily diet so I’m not sure why Japanese rice would cause such bad constipation for me. 

Any advice, product recommendations or insights would be greatly appreciated! Thank you in advance!

——

UPDATE: successfully unblocked and I’m feeling SO much better 🙌 thank you so much for all the advice, especially those who suggested that I was taking the wrong type of laxative; I learned a lot about laxatives the last few days. 

There are two types of laxatives: stimulant laxatives (stimulate muscles into a bowel movement) and osmotic laxatives (draw water into the stool). I was taking Senna (a stimulant laxative) but my stool had hardened too much for this to be effective and I really needed to be taking an osmotic laxative (like Miralax). I couldn’t easily find Miralax in Japan, apparently their main osmotic laxative they typically use is magnesium oxide. So, I picked up COLAC II for 800yen at Matsumoto Kiyoshi and it worked like a charm! 

Have not returned to a completely normal routine yet, but am implementing many of the suggestions outlined in this thread (bananas, probiotics, and pocari in addition to my fiber pills). Thanks Reddit! 

### Comment 1

For me I think it was the lack of fresh vegetables and fruits. I went to department stores just to buy salads and fruit salads cause I needed that fibre. 

I find things like Metamucil is very helpful as a preventative. They have osmotic laxatives that draw water into your stool, similar to Movicol but less gentle I guess? It’s not always fast acting depending on how backed up you are. I believe Colac II has osmotic laxatives in combo with other types. 

Hope this helps!

### Comment 2

This seems like something to speak with your medical professional about.

### Comment 3

It's really easy to eat a low fibre diet in Japan. I try to be conscientious when eating fruit and vegetables. It's too easy just to eat Yakitori, Tonkatsu, white rice etc. and not too much healthy stuff.

### Comment 4

Japanese food tends to have high levels of sodium. I would drink a metric ton of water/liquids to compensate which will help. The fact you're peeing it out is a good thing.

### Comment 5

This happened to someone I know and so now we always travel with fiber gummies. We start the day we leave and it seems to help keep things moving. It's really easy to miss out on fresh fruits & veggies when traveling (especially travel days).

