# Tokyo IC card shortage update: JR East apparently resume selling Suica cards at major Tokyo stations.

So after suspending sales of Welcome Suica at Narita Airport several days, JR East have recently updated the notice on [their English website](https://www.jreast.co.jp/multi/en/) to say the following:

>From December 18th, Welcome Suica will only be sold at Haneda Airport Terminal 3 Station on Tokyo Monorail Haneda Airport Line.
Please note that IC cards will not be sold at Narita Airport.
If you wish to purchase an IC card after December 11th, **please purchase Suica at JR EAST Travel Service Center Tokyo, Shinagawa, Shibuya, Shinjuku, Ikebukuro, or Ueno**.
Sales at JR EAST Travel Service Center Tokyo will start from December 13th.
In principle, only one Welcome Suica and Suica will be sold per person.
Welcome Suica and Suica may be sold out.
We apologize for the inconvenience and appreciate your understanding.

It's not 100% clear, but from the wording it seems like they're selling the *regular, permanent* version of Suica instead of the 28-day Welcome Suica, maybe we're seeing a quiet phase-out of the tourist cards?

Also, it sounds like they're enforcing a 1 card per person policy, possibly to stop resellers from buying in bulk, so if you're buying them for a group it might be a good idea to have everyone present.

Hopefully this is the light at the end of the tunnel for the whole card shortage.

### Comment 1

This card chip shortage makes no sense when they print out one month disposable ones to replace 10 year usage ones.

### Comment 2

[removed]

### Comment 3

Can you still get Pasmo passport at Narita?

### Comment 4

Well we're already past the 11th. Anyone have experience with this? Someone currently in Tokyo can confirm this.

### Comment 5

We just landed in haneda Saturday 12/16 and could not buy a card. I was able to get a mobile version but my husband is still struggling to figure out how to get one.

