# Is 3k usd enough for two adults for 8 days

Hi-
My bf and i are traveling to tokyo in 2 weeks and we plan to bring a total of 3000 usd to spend. Our hotel is paid for. All the activities like sky tree, mario kart and Disneyland tickets are purchased. The money will solely be for food, souvenirs and shopping. Not sure how expensive the food is there…. I assume is within 10-15$ per entree… will it be enough for both of us??? 
We do like to eat alot so i can see us eating out 5-6times a day when we’re there. 
Any tips would be helpful. Its our first time goinf there.

Edit: thank you all!!! We dont like to eat at fine dining so i think this will be our budget for 8 days. Its better to have it and not need it than need it and not have it. 

### Comment 1

I’ve been 3x so far and feel like people tend to think Japan is mad expensive but especially food and souvenirs are affordable, so you should be more than fine.

### Comment 2

That sounds like way more than enough for 8 days with everything already payed for besides food and souvenirs. I would be very surprised if you spend it all!

### Comment 3

Depends on what you’re doing for food. But with the current exchange rate it’s almost like everything is 30% off. And from what I remember when I went in 2015, food is actually pretty reasonable even if you’re eating out. I remember some of my dishes only being around 1100 yen.

If you want snacks or a quick meal I loved going to convenience stores. They’re way better than the US and pretty inexpensive. I often got an egg sandwich and drink for like 500 yen. 

3000 USD gives you about $187.50 per person per day. So I’d say that’s plenty for both food and souvenirs.

### Comment 4

In Japan now. And been many be time before. I've been documenting my meals. 

Gyudon at Matsuya about 500-600 yen.

Soba, curry, udon, Katsudon about 800-1200 yen.

Sushi about 2000-6000 yen.

Fine dining about 10000 (lunch 2* Joel roubouchon roppongi) to 22000 (dinner 2* satou steak)

Note that these prices are without alcohol.

I would also budget about 1000-1500 yen a day for transportation costs.

So yes your budget will be fine

### Comment 5

Food is much much cheaper than The US especially CA and higher cost of living States. 

You can easily find authentic, tasty food at great prices - I love Torikizoku with all dishes around $3 USD including alcohol. Huge selection and you can order in English on an iPad.

Bakeries are high quality and very reasonable - had an amazing sandwich and cappuccino for under $10 yesterday. Coffee alone in LA is up to $8 in some places. 

Lots of places offering all you can eat and or drink for around $20. 

Tax is already included and no need to tip.

