# Unique breaks from walking in Tokyo?

Traveling with a friend and they got exhausted and cranky from all of the walking. Wanted some place more comfortable to rest than a hard chair at a cafe & we'd already eaten. Can anyone recommend places to just chill for 30 min that's comfortable? We tried going to a movie theater but all English movies were sold out at the time

### Comment 1

If you were willing to pay for two movie tickets and concessions just to sit down for a bit, why not take a taxi somewhere?  It both gives you a chair and removes a leg of walking.

### Comment 2

This is a common thing where people seem to want to power through too much

My advice is to eat like a hobbit

By taking multiple food breaks, even small ones, can really help alleviate walking too much.

You can pretty much just sit inside any coffee shop  for as long as you want. Just know in Japan coffee refills are not a thing

### Comment 3

There's the Konica Minolta planetarium. The shows range in times and you can get a big comfy bed like seat and watch some stars and shows with music! We didn't have time on our last trip but it was on our list for a rest day activity.

### Comment 4

I have a wonky right leg and a friend gave me this advice for when I got to tokyo.


Get a blanket, it has a Japanese name that I forgot but they sell it all over the place, most of them fit 2-4 people so with that head to the nearest park when tired. spread the blanket and just sit under a tree turning it into an improve picnic if you have some snacks or combini nearby. 


It'll give you a chance to rest a bit and recharge before getting back up again. Just remember to pick up after yourselves.

### Comment 5

Karaoke

