# Tips from my 2 weeks holiday in Japan

Just came back from my 2 weeks trip to Japan. We are a family of 4, with 18M and 21F. Landed in Tokyo, Shinkansen to Kyoto, train to Osaka, and 1 day trip in Nara.

Just to share my experience.

- Accommodation - we stay in Asakusa and the public transport is very convenient. There is no reason to pay more to stay in Ginza or Shinjuku.

- Suica/Pasmo - We use Pasmo and they are waiving 500JPY deposit now. No problem to go anywhere.

- We use Wise physical card and exchange to JPY before the trip whenever the currency rate is favorable to us. No problem anywhere with using it.

- Data Sim - I use Ubigi eSim and also bought a physical sim for my son (his phone doesn't support eSim) in the airport. Ubigi is half of the price with the same 10G data.

- Cash, use either 7/11 or post office ATM, the fee is 110 JPY for 10k withdrawals and 220 JPY for 20k above, and additional with the withdrawal fee from Wise. Cash is required to top up the Pasmo card and some restaurants do not accept card.

- Tax reduction - bring your passport along. All shops will ask to see the actual passport to perform the tax reduction. No check when we leave Japan. The customs officer doesn't even care.

- Reserved Shinkansen on the right side of the train so we can see the Fuji Mountain on the way to Kyoto. I used SmartEX to make the booking.

- Google map will tell you everything from point A to point B. Just follow the instructions.

Edit

* Use physical card for any inline booking. They don't recognised virtual card if they need to verify the info for example to retrieve perbook train ticket.
* Use the transport company like yamato if you have many luggage to move from city to city. Save us lots of energy and time. I use yamato to move my luggage straight from tokyo to osaka when we travel from Tokyo to kyoto and then Osaka.
* register in [visit japan website](https://vjw-lp.digital.go.jp/en/) before the trip will save you time in custom. Thanks 
*  on this tip

### Comment 1

> Tax reduction - bring your passport along. All shops will ask to see the actual passport to perform the tax reduction. 

As a tourist you are supposed to carry your passport with you at all times anyway.

### Comment 2

Was in Japan a month ago. Just to add:

- I could have brought much less clothes. Every Hotel I stayed in had coin laundry machines (most of the machines had the detergent as part of the washing machine). If you're like me and get going early then need downtime in the afternoon, I had plenty of time to do laundry. 

- If you fly ino Hanada and take the monorail into Tokyo. When you get to the station, get off the train and just step aside to let everyone go ahead of you. You're dealing with your luggage, you're tired. You have a paper ticket from the monorail you need to insert into the gate to exit, then do the IC card to catch your next train, there are people everywhere going in every direction, and there's no rhyme or reason on walking on the right or left side of stairs (it's different at a lot of stations) It's a lot. Just take a moment, and get your bearings. 

- Google Maps works great. Pay attention to the platform number for each train. I only got on the wrong direction once, and that was cause I didn't pay attention to the platform numbers

- Some stations can get pretty hectic at the machines. You can refill your IC cards at the combinis.

- If you're out and about with a backpack or shoulder bag, on crowded trains, wear the bag in front of you. I got some sideways eyes cause I didn't realize this was the norm. I'd do it all the time, cause one minute a train will be empty then you hit a major station and it's chaos. It'll be tough to switch when the train is packed.

- All the major cities have great sidewalks, but there always seems to be a section in the sidewalk that has these raised rails, so just be careful. I almost rolled my ankle a couple times stepping on these.

- If you go to a restaurant that seems not busy, and they turn you away, yah they could be a little racist or just don't want to deal with non-japanese speakers. Most likely they will get really busy. I was in places that were empty and in the next 15 minutes it was packed with people. Just walk down the street and find somewhere just as great or better.

- it's been said many times but I can't overstate how there are almost no trash cans outside of combinis. I carried around a few plastic bags in my day bag for this reason alone. There are bottle recycling bins by most cluster of vending machines though.

- Get your ass up early if you want to avoid crowded tourist spots. It's not even that early. I felt as long as I got to places by 9am - 10am it wasn't overrun.

### Comment 3

i wouldnt stay in asakusa if you're into nightlife, since trains basically end a bit past midnight.

### Comment 4

I took 1 set of cloths with me and got another 2 sets from second hand stores for 700 yen in total, other clothing from normal stores also. Bought a suitcase to bring all my stuff home with me.

7/11s are everywhere and their food is real nice and even quite cheap. ATMs are also convenient.

### Comment 5

If you're traveling with luggages from let's say Osaka to Tokyo, you can ask the hotel to deliver hotel to hotel for you. Cheap as well.

Also hotels with Eki seems like they're close to stations. Could be wrong though but worth checking.

