# Tourist useful apps in Japan

Hey All, first time visiting Japan, any useful apps i should be aware of, that can make my visit smooth? Maybe maps, transportation, food etc…

Plan is tokyo, Osaka and Kyoto.

Thanks!

### Comment 1

- Suica pass that can be added from the Apple Store into Apple wallet, but only if you have an iPhone and Apple Pay with a MasterCard (possibly also now works with Visa and Amex, best to try yourself). Then you don’t need queue up to get a physical welcome Suica or passmo passport at the airport. 
- Go (for taxis, forget Uber etc)
- Travel spend if you like to keep track of what you’ve spent
- Holafly, it’s an esim with unlimited data but no tethering, or Ubigi, a cheaper esim with limited data and allows tethering, and then you also don’t need to queue up for a physical SIM card at the airport. You need to pay and install before you arrive in Japan, and then activate it on arrival.

- Not an app, but also make sure to use visit Japan web to sort out your entry documentation paperlessly. It gives you QR codes to scan when you arrive

### Comment 2

Tabelog!

Restaurant reviews. menus, etc. More detailed and reliable what whatever google maps throws up.

&#x200B;

For actual maps, i find google maps was perfectly fine, and was also very good at navigating the public transport.

### Comment 3

Google map  
Google translate  
Uber or Go  
I only used these 3 apps for my 2 weeks in Tokyo, Kyoto and Osaka. 90% Google Map, 9% Google translate and 1% Uber (I use public transport a lot)

### Comment 4

Japan wifi auto-connect. 

Saw an ad on the Narita Express - works on Android really well. Runs in background afaik and auto connects you to available wifi. It got me connected in many places during my trip without having to lift a finger. Don't ask me how it works. Likely saved me a ton of data on my Ubigi plan.

### Comment 5

Navitime

