# Covid and flu are going around!

Make sure you get vaccinated before coming. Currently battling one of the two (not quite sure which because couldn’t make it to a clinic today to get tested + it’s Saturday) and it’s brutal. Things are sardine packed in Tokyo so good luck not getting sick if someone nearby is sick! Better to just prepare for the possibility early and get vaccinated. 

Also, getting OTC medication is super easy out here. People are nice and will likely help you if you don’t know much Japanese. The obaa-chan who runs the pharmacy by my accommodations is truly god-sent. Stay safe folks!

### Comment 1

You can get Covid ATKs and Covid+flu ATKs at most drugstores.

### Comment 2

The troglodytes are coming out of their conspiracy caves today. 

Believe what you want but I owe my quick recovery from covid to getting vaccinated and boosted. Winter has *always* been a season of increased illness, and masks are both a shield and a courtesy, not a political flag.

Everyone here talking about poison jabs are only announcing their ignorance to the world. Congratulations.

### Comment 3

I just came back from Japan and I’m pretty sure I got covid while I was over there. Had symptoms when I got back but thankfully nothing bad. Mask up guys

### Comment 4

got both shots before I left, hoping they're holding up

### Comment 5

Masking is also imperative. Vaccines help reduce the symptom severity as a last line of defense, it shouldn't be the only thing you do. I just had a trip, masked everywhere with nasal spray and was fine even with coughers and sneezers everywhere

