# What should I wake up early for?

This Spring will be my first time going to Japan for the Sakura season. I am mentally preparing myself for the crowds due to it being a high peak season; however, the more research I’ve done, the more videos I’ve had recommended across all social media regarding tips and tricks for Japan that have been insightful, but a bit overwhelming this point lol. My FYP on Tik Tok is nothing, but Japan videos and my explorer page on IG is the same. That being said, I’ve tried to refrain from researching a bit so my socials can go back with time. 

I’ll be doing the holy trinity almost everyone seems to do with their first trip (Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka w/ a day to trip to Nara). I’ve learned that many places (shops and food spots) open late, but I haven’t dived into shrines and temples. Again, my brains been fried there seems to be soooo much to do. What’re some totally worth it musts I should be waking up early for to beat the crowds and enjoy in solitude? Please share some for all 3 spots. 

I also haven’t done much food research as I was thinking of winging it, but is there any must spots for food or drinks (bars, cafes) spots I shouldn’t miss out on?

### Comment 1

I started every day around 5am, it was definitely worth it to avoid the crowds. Fushimi inari was pretty quite and same with the arishayama bamboo grove

### Comment 2

If you want to do hanami, wake up early to find a good spot. They often get snagged early in the day.

### Comment 3

Out of the three, I would only wake up early in Kyoto, to see the tori gates, monkeys, bamboo grove etc. 

For the most part, I'd rather sleep in and stay out late in Japan. The nightlife is fantastic, but then very little tends to open before ~11 AM.

### Comment 4

I think you would have to get up fairly early for any temples to avoid crowds.

Though, when we were in Kyoto last month, we visited Fushimi Inari & got there around 8am on a weekend & thought the crowd wasn’t too bad surprisingly. We ended up hiking the entire trail & there are way less people as you make your way to the top so you can still get some good photos.

By the time we made it down around 10am, the crowds skyrocketed like shoulder touching shoulder so as fyi!

### Comment 5

We just got back from all 3 cities. We had our 8 year old boy with us so experience might be different. In Tokyo our goal was to mostly just experience and explore. No set agenda except to check out a cat cafe and a reservation for pokemon cafe. My son loves cats so we did that in ikekuburo and checked out the area. Also spent time in akihibara to play arcade. We were in Tokyo for 3 nights and moved on to Kyoto for another 3 nights. We stayed in Gion area and Im a morning person so I got up at 6 every day to check out sites. I went to check out Ninenzaka and kiyomizu dera and fushimi inari in the morning. It was a relaxing change compared to Tokyo. When my wife and son woke up we went to see the bamboo forest and nishiki market. We moved on to Osaka for 2 nights and woke up early for Universal Japan 730am and lined up for opening at 830am and headed straight to Super Nintendo world. 

All meals we just winged it never had a bad meal. Breakfasts were usually konbini.

