# My school Japan trip will almost cost $5300. I was wondering if it was worth it.

This is the information I got.

You are receiving this email because you filled out the interest form for the trip to Japan and you are on the list of 10 students given priority. The vote was to include Tokyo as well as the Kansai area (Kyoto, Osaka, and Nara). We will be traveling by airplane to and from Japan, and by bus and bullet train within Japan, with a guide in Kansai area and another in Tokyo area.


I have received the quote for our trip, which is currently $5286.66. This may still change slightly by the time booking gets confirmed. It includes the airfare to and from Japan, travel within Japan, accommodations, and sightseeing attractions. Please note that it does not include meals, so you will need to bring enough money to buy food.


The itinerary is as follows: 


June 4th- We will go from SFO to Haneda Airport then take a local flight to Okayama Airport (arriving on June 5th). From there the agency will provide transportation by bus to Korakukan high school where we will meet our host families and stay for several days while visiting the high school.

June 10th- Leave Korakukan and travel to Kyoto, where we will see Kinkakuji and Nijo Castle.

June 11th- Stay in Kyoto and see Kiyomizu Temple and Fushimi Inari Shrine.

June 12th- Travel to Nara and see Todaiji, Nara Deer Park, and Kasuga Grand Shrine, then transfer to Osaka.

June 13th- Explore Osaka by seeing Dotonbori and Osaka Castle

June 14th- Travel by bullet train to Tokyo and see Meiji Jingu Shrine and Harajuku.

June 15th- See Sensoji and Skytree in Tokyo.

June 16th- Return from Haneda Airport to SFO.

### Comment 1

For an adult that has the means to go on a different trip, this is way too expensive.  But if it's your only option to go to Japan and you or your family can afford it, by all means DO it.  The experience will be incredible....how much it costs depends on how much $5300 is to you or your family.  And to reiterate, that also depends on if you have means to go independently of the school.   Oh, add in the value of going with school friends if that's important to you.  I would have loved that over going with my parents when I was in school, LOL.

### Comment 2

How old are you?  Are you old enough to plan your own trip?  If not, how badly do you want to go?

Only you can decide whether it's worth it based on whether you want to go and whether you can book an equivalent trip on your own.

### Comment 3

I gasped when I read that it does not include meals… Definitely not worth it!

### Comment 4

Seems pricey, but the key thing here is that you're going to have tour guides.  Those are not cheap, so you have to decide for yourself if that's worth it or not.  On one hand they can translate for you, give you some insight on the history of the sites you'll be seeing, and they know their way around.  Basically, you don't have to do any research or planning.  On the other hand, that's not something that I would personally want to pay for.  I would also personally want to stay more than 2 days in Tokyo, but that's just me.

### Comment 5

What a scam. Basically you're covering the flights, hotels and food for whoever the accompanying staff that's coming. Most of the attractions are free.

