# Traveling with an Anime crazy teenager!

My wife and I are planning a 10 day trip to Japan in April along with our teenage son (14 y.o) who is the sole reason we are traveling to Japan right now. That's because he's been crazy about Japanese Anime and Manga since an early age. We had planned this trip in 2020 when he was 10 but COVID played spoilsport. Now we want to make it happen before he isn't that much a kid anymore and we don't want to make him feel that we never took him there. 

Now, the issue is that he's not interested in anything else other than visiting Anime related places in Tokyo like Akihabara, Pokemon center etc. Most of the itineraries that I come across have lovely places mentioned in Osaka/Kyoto/Nara etc which am sure my wife and I would enjoy very much but we fear our son might get too bored and that might spoil our fun as well.

Any tips on how to balance this out? Japan being an expensive country to travel, I don't think we can extend our trip beyond 10 days or so with 3 of us traveling. At the same time, I feel the overall costs might not be justified if we just see a bunch of Anime places and come back. 

Thanks in advance!

### Comment 1

A word of warning about Akihabara, a lot of the anime & manga shops have basements & upper floors that are filled to the brim with porn, and even the main sales floor will have a lot of explicit or provocative items just out & about. That's not to say there isn't age appropriate stuff like Ghibli, Nintendo, Pokemon, etc in Akihabara, just be aware that this other stuff is there too so you can decide what you want to expose your child to.

### Comment 2

Lots of anime takes place in other more interesting parts of Japan, it would be easy to bring this up and say that you can’t spend 10 days shopping in Akihabara, but an afternoon or two days there is probably plenty!

### Comment 3

Your son sounds spoiled.  My parents wouldn't put up with it, and expect me to see more of the culture instead of just anime/manga.  It would be such a waste. Japan is way more than just that, and it could give him the wrong impression of the country (which he probably already has).  

Can't you make an agreement with him:  We take you to Japan but it's not all going to be anime.  He may actually enjoy it.

### Comment 4

I wouldn’t let my 14 year old’s current interests dominate the family’s 10 day vacation. Certainly plan some Anime stops (Gibli tour, shopping in Akihabara, Pokemon center), but plan the majority of the trip around experiencing this wonderful country’s culture and beauty.

If you want to sell that to him, explain he should soak in the culture to understand the influences on the anime to gain a better appreciation.

### Comment 5

Is he into ghilbi? Maybe try to book ghilbi museum for him. 

I went to Kyoto manga museum but it wasn’t for me since it’s just a big library of manga books and some history about manga.

He might like team labs which is a good visit for non anime lovers too.

