# PSA: Changes to the Visiting Japan Web procedures after 25th of Jan

If you are visiting Japan soon, know that you can skip the customs and immigration line by filling it up on their website before hand. You will receive two QR codes (one for each) to scan once you get to the airport instead of the hour long queue to present your piece of paper.


**However**


Starting Jan 25th this system will be discontinued in favor of voltroning it. It'll now be just one QR code for both and anyone with the older two separate codes will just have to fill out the paper one and get in queue.


If you've filled out the forum early for your trip be sure to log back in after the 25th to redo that section and get the new code


https://vjw-lp.digital.go.jp/en/

### Comment 1

Wow thanks for the heads up! I get there Feb 2 so I'll just redo that portion?

### Comment 2

I actually land on the 26th so should I fill it out the morning of my flight?

### Comment 3

>voltroning it

Forgive my ignorance... what does this mean ?

### Comment 4

I just visited this past week, had no form to fill out.  I stood in the border line for all but 5 mins and breezed on through with no questions to answer.  I am a US citizen.  All the covid equipment prior to immigration was still there but all covered up with a staff member escorting folks past it.  I stood in line for maybe 5 mins at most.  On the departure, all flyers just scan their passport and get a green light to proceed if all checks out.  Secondary officers are there if there is a flag on your scan.  Quite possibly the most automated process I have encountered in the last 5 yrs.

### Comment 5

I noticed that I filled out digital customs/immigrations forms for both Japan and coming back to US... But neither were checked or did I even have an opportunity to show them.

I assume it's because I was traveling with children as the staff kept asking, "Family?" then directing us to particular lines (which didn't have QR code readers.)

I will probably still fill them out just to be safe but I have not ever scanned one the two times I have filled them out.

