# Be honest, no judgment, what was your fondest memory in Tokyo or Kyoto?

I'm traveling to both, spending one week in each. We don't care about seeing anything particularly. I don't mind missing out on the "must see" tourist spots, we really just want to experience Japan together. It seems like a lot of recommendations can be equated to telling someone whose visiting NYC for the first time to go to the empire state building, so, I'm curious about what everyone's favorite moments were, whether that's at a tourist spot or finding a sweet cat at a convenience store or an interesting dirt clearing in the middle of nowhere i do not care!! We're 27F & 30M, we drink, we love anime and pokémon and nature and food but mostly we just love hanging out together. We're a couple but he's also my best friend so i'm up for anything from a romantic and expensive evening out to a day drinking dive bar with arm wrestling, genuinely. I'm excited to hear about your favorite little moments :) thank you

### Comment 1

Honestly for my trip my fondest memory was not planning anything for dinner, walking into some random "restaurant" (it was basically someones living room) where it was a sushi chef and his wife were the only 2 people running the place. There were 3 guests there eating a full set sushi meal and none of them spoke any english, in fact they asked us how we even found the place. They weren't 100% sure what to do with us, I asked if they could fit 3 people and they looked at us like we were crazy but they were all the nicest people on the planet so they sat us. One of the guests understood us and used google translate to help explain the menu and so we all decided on a full sushi set where this chef cut the freshest fish ive ever seen in my life and created an incredible meal for us and all we had to communicate was thumbs up after every piece and they all waited patiently to see our reaction, it was quite the night. When we left everyone in the entire room shook our hands and bowed for us on the way out

### Comment 2

There are a few mini replicas of Mt Fuji in Tokyo, called *fujizuka* — originally built so that people who couldn’t climb actual Mt Fuji could receive the same spiritual experience by climbing the replica instead. I went to the one at Hatonomori Hachiman, which is south of Shinjuku in Tokyo. It’s an ADORABLE path up a hill with all 10 stations marked, and for some reason I just thought it was really fun!

### Comment 3

Kyoto: we visited kiyomizu dera and it was beautiful, but also very crowded. When we followed the crowds down the hill, there was an intersection where everyone went right, but you could also go left, pass a gate and walk a forest path. 


We did, and after about 20 minutes ended up at Seikanji-temple. It was small, and there were only one or 2 other people besides us. It was really beautiful and peaceful after all the hustling and bustling of kiyomizu dera.


Another part we really enjoyed was discovering a bamboo forest halfway up the mountain at Fushimi Inari. There's a pond with a small path leading into the forest, and barely any people went there.


On our way down, we found a small stall that was selling postcards with cats in them and a host of other little things. There were lots of cats around, and the shopkeeper told us the cat on the card I'd bought was actually the one sitting right next to it on the table. That was pretty cute too!

### Comment 4

Went to an Onsen in Kyoto. While showering, a soccer team from a European country came in. They didn't know the etiquette. Some are throwing their towels to their teammates. All of them are shouting. Someone did a freaking canon ball. One Japanese elderly talked to the property manager and all the soccer players were forced out. Hehe

### Comment 5

Hah, had so many good memories in Tokyo! I think it was when I entered a random Okonamiyaki restaurant near Shibuya and the entire staff wanted to know more about me as they didn't get much foreigners. Ended up having a great chat with one of the chefs and met him and his wife again when they were on vacation in Europe. I also was in awe on my first or second night when I went to the Metropolitan Government Building at night for the view. When I went out of it, I went to the shrine near the building, there was no-one there and it was absolutely gorgeous. In combination with the buildings around it, it felt like I walked into Ghost of The Shell.   


Kyoto, I think just walking/cycling around was my favorite.  Oh that and getting absolutely shitfaced with some random people in the hostel and going to a club. Wasn't feeling it in the beginning, ended up having loads of fun

