# Crowded morning rush train tips from a local

As title, I thought this tip might help first-timers have a smoother time if you happen to get on the train during morning commute rush, especially in big cities like Tokyo or Osaka. 

You're likely to get squeezed, sometimes pushed, and be unable to move very freely when its jam-packed in the train. You can hold on to a handle or the seat railing if you can, and plant yourself firmly so that you don't get swayed easily when the train moves. 

When you want to get down, and you're not near the opening door, being blocked by a crowd, say loudly "Sumimasen! Orimasu!" (Sorry! I'm getting off!). People will move out of the way, the ones near the door will step out and give you way to get out as quick as possible, since train doors will close after 1-2 minutes. Might have to use a little strength to squeeze yourself out but keep saying that out loud to let others know to give you way.

On the other hand, if you happen to stand in front of the opening door, and if someone needs to get off from behind the crowd, don't hesitate to step out of the door, wait next to it, and step/squeeze back in when that other person/people have exited. Squeezing back in sounds tough, but if you stand still, you might block others from getting out, and people will tend to forcefully push you out of their way if that happens.

That's all. Morning rush will usually be around 7\~9am, so avoid using the trains during that time if you can. 

### Comment 1

One thing you want to avoid is to keep your large backpack strapped to your back in a crowded train. It is most likely in someone's face.

### Comment 2

Agreed on all fronts.

Don't be afraid to just start moving and pointing. People are used to it since it's an every day occurrence. You want/need to get off just as much as they do when it's their stop. Everyone typically moves to help you get off. Just don't stand there.

### Comment 3

[removed]

### Comment 4

Are you really a local? These just look like observations from someone who's visiting or an expat lol

I'm a local born, so here are some other tips:

* If you're getting off at the next station, start collecting your belongings and look like you're going to get off. Most people will get the sign and start creating a path for you out.
* Sumimasen doesn't really work especially at heavy rush hour and most people don't do this. The best way is to put your arm/hand out a bit in the direction you want to go and use that to help you navigate through the crowd
* If you are standing in front of the doorway, be aware of your surroundings. If someone looks like they're making their way off, please just get off, get in front of the line waiting to get onboard and wait till they get off. Don't wait till the very last second to where they're trying to squeeze past you
* If you have a backpack with you..
   * If you're sitting on the seat or sitting in the middle of the walkways, put your bag on the front of you.
   * If you're standing right next to the seats and have easy access to the overhead luggage rack, use them.
* If you have a suitcase, please try to avoid using the train during rush hour. If you really must use the train during rush hour, see if you can ship your suitcase to your next hotel or figure out if there are alternate means of transport.
* Especially for guys - if you're standing near a female, try to keep your hands up. Like one hand on the hand hold, and the other with a phone. The reason for this is there been cases of females falsely or accidentally complaining about sexual harassment. For example, if your hands are in your pocket, or try to reach for your phone in your pocket and you accidentally rub them the wrong way, you could face problems. Having your hands up, and in view of the cameras and other bystanders means you won't face problems.
* if you really MUST travel during rush hour, and you're departing from or after a major station, it MAY be worth walking an extra few minutes to the previous/major station to be able to get a seat or get a spot in the train. I used to do this when I needed commute during rush hour. I'd walk an extra 10min or so, but at least I could at least get on the train. If I didn't, I may have had to wait a train or 2 just to get on.

### Comment 5

I’d say another useful tip (for a 3~ group) would be to make sure everyone in your party knows where to get off, and to not be a nuisance trying to stay together as a group. You will get pushed and separated at times.

