# First time capsule hotel and already horrified.

Just got myself 2 nights in a capsule hotel. First night in some guy is snoring loud enough for me to hear him from the other side of the first outside doors. And hotel is nearly empty. I imagine if we had multiple people like that you would not be able to sleep sober or what? Not to mention some silly rules that you have to check out untill 10am for their cleaning and can only come back at 2pm. And inconvienience to have to store your stuff away from your bunk basically having to walk across every time u forget a charger or a document or whatever.... and its not even that much cheaper with cheap business hotel rooms going like 10euros extra per night.. I really dont get the point of capsule hotels at this point..am i missing something? I guess good ones that have amenities like lounges, saunas or whatever may still be worth it but if its that older type with basic amenitues only its not a very great option..

### Comment 1

Before COVID they were significantly cheaper than business hotel. A night could cost just 3000-4000 yen in the middle of Tokyo. They are. It not meant to be stayed long term. It's more like a night when you missed the last train, or when you are absolutely broke. It's meant to be sleep in, and that's it.


They usually don't have amenities. Those are more of hostel things than capsule hotel.

### Comment 2

They’re for people, mainly locals, who need a cheap one night somewhere. No idea how they managed to successfully sell themselves to tourists.

### Comment 3

The whole point of these is a place to crash when you are drunk and miss your trains, so the provisions and amenities are minimal. You're not supposed to stay here past the time it takes to get to work or home the next day.

### Comment 4

Yeah, it seems like common sense is turned off by some people when doing touristy stuff

### Comment 5

[removed]

