# Overrated places in Japan?

Currently building an itinerary for Japan, have a lot of attractions on the list based on google searches, what are some of the most overrated places in your opinion? I'm hoping to knock some attractions off the list. Thanks

### Comment 1

Resident in the Kanto region. I'd say many places are overhyped more often than they're overrated.

Ichiran Ramen puzzled me when I saw lines of foreign tourists waiting for a bowl of decent but not spectacular ramen. There are hundreds of good to excellent ramen shops all over Tokyo and dedicated English language bloggers rate them.

Same with most sushi restaurants that get featured in the international media. They're not overrated, just too much attention which funnels traffic away from very good sushi places.

### Comment 2

I wouldn't say overrated but avoid the most famous Kyoto sights during busy hours because it takes the joy away from them. Depends on whether you travel peak season too though.

### Comment 3

Takeshita-dori in Harajuku. 

A couple of decades ago, it had some interesting and quirky stores, including a couple of second-hand clothing places at the lower end that sold genuinely cheap clothing. 

Now it’s ridiculously crowded with sightseers lining up for crepes or sliced potato on a stick and all the shops sell overpriced rubbish. You can get cheaper crepes from a number of other places literally metres away, that don’t even have a queue.

**NOTE:** It’s certainly worth visiting Harajuku and Aoyama, but just steer clear of Takeshita-dori.

### Comment 4

Inside Osaka castle? The exterior is nice. 
But inside is a letdown. There are lifts, aircon, netting to prevent birds from coming in. Feels more like an indoor building rather than a castle.

### Comment 5

Arashiyama Bamboo forest. Smaller than you imagine and packed full of tourists like nematoeds in a Krusty krab.

