# Will my tattoos be a problem in Japan?--I'm not white like a lot of answers to this question seem to assume

So, I've been looking up "the tattoo issue" and the answer usually seems to be "it'll be fine, you're obviously a foreigner, so provided you don't go into a shrine or onsen with them uncovered you won't be bothered."  However, in my case, I have a bit of extra concern:  I'm Japanese American.  Culturally, I'm *entirely* American--I'm descended from people who immigrated to America 100 years ago and nobody in my family speaks Japanese or follows any Japanese customs anymore.  I'm fully going as a tourist as much as any white American would.  But, because I *do* still have that ethnic appearance, I'm not sure I'd get the "obvious foreigner" free pass.  Making things worse is that the rest of my group insisted on a summer trip, meaning I'm dreading having to potentially wear full jeans and long sleeved sweaters in June.

So, do you think I'll still get the "foreigner pass" if I wear shorts or a t-shirt to deal with the heat?  Do I have to shell out money to buy a whole new wardrobe of sun shirts and lightweight long pants just for this trip?  Is there a list of places *besides* shrines and onsens that I'll have to cover up for?  Honestly, I'm really stressed about a lot of aspects of this trip because of the fact that I *look* ethnically Japanese but do not have extensive knowledge of the language or customs.

If it matters, my tattoos are inoffensive content-wise and are nerdy-themed.  The planned trip is to Kyoto and Osaka.

### Comment 1

I’m Asian with tats. Went to Japan in the summer so wore tank tops. Locals didn’t give a shit

### Comment 2

Honestly most Japanese would be able to tell that you aren’t a local from your dressing, mannerism… notwithstanding your Japanese ethnic appearance. 

There’s plenty of East Asian tourists in Japan that sometimes look similar-ish to Japanese … you will blend in just fine. 

Kyoto / Osaka is also insanely touristy and they are probably used to any and all sorts of visitors.

### Comment 3

Tattoos are really only an issue in onsen. Outside of that setting basically no one really cares that much. Ironically most modern yakuza don’t have tattoos anymore so it’s a rule that functionally has no meaning in discriminating the core group it was designed for

There’s no need to cover up especially if it’s summer and you’re dying outside. Just wear comfortable clothes. No one will give you a hard time about it

### Comment 4

I’m also 100% ethnically Japanese but born and raised in the US and I’ve been told that even tho I “look” Japanese, people here often assume I’m foreign. I know it’s mostly bc of my mannerisms, my fashion, and my overall vibe— it’s just different! I even speak fluent Japanese and sometimes they’ll still respond to me in English. All this to say, I wouldn’t stress! They likely won’t assume that you’re Japanese if you don’t speak the language even tho you look Japanese. They may just assume you’re another East Asian.

### Comment 5

The only place I was asked to cover up in my trip this week was at a public hotel pool. They gave me a rash guard shirt and that was it.

