# Are there any interesting Japanese fashion brands to check out that are a step up from Uniqlo / Muji but still a lot cheaper than Comme des Garçons?

I’m an adult male who wants to look sophisticated without looking conservative / old. Thank you. 

### Comment 1

> look sophisticated without looking conservative / old

If you're not particularly into streetwear, and just want to explore different styles and Japanese brands that's a step up from Uniqlo,

I recommend heading into Beauty & Youth, United Arrows, or BEAMS

### Comment 2

Fall down the Japanese denim rabbithole

### Comment 3

Dude, you’re speaking my language. I used to live in Japan (in my 20s) and fell in love with the fashion. I go back about once a year and bring an empty suitcase for all of the shopping I do. 

Comme ca Ism is a brand you should check out. It’s the sweet spot between looks and value. 

If I were you, I’d spend a lot of time in these 3 places:

OIOI MAN (pronounced “marui”) in Shinjuku - It’s my favorite men’s-only department store in Japan. They have a huge selection of Japanese brands. 

Isetan Man in Shinjuku - Another men’s-only department store. They have domestic and international brands. They are pricer than OIOI but worth checking out. 

Daikanyama - this is the name of a train station in Tokyo near Shibuya. It’s like the Brooklyn or Abbott Kinney of Tokyo. There are tons of cool menswear shops scattered around and I don’t have a specific placed to recommend. If you go there, head over to T-Site and grab some coffee. 

If you have extra time:

Mont Bell in Shinjuku - this is a Japanese outdoor brand, like Patagonia. 

Cat Street - It’s a long street near Harajuku that has streetwear brands. 

Hankyu Men’s Store - this is in Osaka near Umeda station. 


If you really want to get into the weeds of Japanese fashion, there’s a YouTube channel called
“The casual” where a guy really gets deep about the “what” and the “why.”

### Comment 4

Go into a department store and have a look around the mens department. Or go into a mall or "zakkyo"  (mixed use) building. You will have the chance to see a lot of brands mixed up in one place. Probably more bang for your buck vs. walking along the street.

### Comment 5

Beam plus, and United arrow are considered more upscaled.

