# Bringing a baby to Japan? I just did. AMA!

Wrapping up three weeks in Japan with our 16 month old baby. We did Tokyo -> Kyoto -> Osaka and relied heavily on advice we got from Reddit. Some great (e.g., don’t bring a huge stroller), some terrible (e.g., don’t bring a stroller an all). 

Some high level points:
1) Diapers were much easier to find than the horror stories make it seem. Don’t be scared of pants type diapers, they tear away at the sides, making them effectively just like regular tape diapers. 
2) Get a stroller that folds down small. It’s too challenging to travel with a big stroller. You absolutely need something that you can fold down and carry.
3) Don’t bother trying to find elevators at every subway station. Be prepared to fold up the stroller and take stairs or escalators. These subways stations are HUGE and often the only elevator will be on the wrong side of a major railway or road. It’s nearly impossible to effectively use public transit as a tourist if you always need an elevator. 
4) Definitely get an IC card on your Apple watch or iPhone. 
5) Japan is actually very baby friendly if you’re traveling light. Most horror stories on Reddit were wrong or outdated. Restaurants will try to accommodate you if they can, but not every restaurant will be able to. Not much different than being in the US. If you have a baby you’re already dining early most likely, but the 5 and 5:30 PM reservations were definitely easiest. 
6) Crowded areas are tough to navigate, specifically Shibuya in Tokyo and Dotombori in Osaka. Kyoto was remarkably easy. Again, get a stroller that folds up and fits in a cab trunk!

Happy to help with any other questions you have based on my one experience this trip!

### Comment 1

Also - I can’t stress enough how important it is to do some research on cultural norms and respect in Japan. You should spend at least as much time on this as you do on booking restaurants and hotels. Being able to use sumimasen, arigato gozaimasu, iee desu ka, wakarimasen, daijobu desu, toire wa doko desu ka, konnochiwa, and konbanwa will be appreciated by the Japanese people you meet and will show that you’re making an effort and not expecting to be catered to (though they will likely cater to you anyway). Don’t blow your nose in public, don’t talk loudly anywhere that’s quiet like trains and train stations, don’t eat while you’re walking, don’t talk on the phone at restaurants, don’t take pictures of anyone without permission, don’t let your baby throw a tantrum without taking action to remove or pacify them, etc. The Japanese won’t expect you to follow all their cultural norms, but making an effort will be recognized and appreciated. 

I recommend buying dog poop bags for dirty diapers since you may not be near a trash can - they are few and far between so you may be hauling dirty diapers over distance at times. This was especially challenging when our baby got diarrhea for a few days. If this happens, start carrying backup clothes until it resolves.

### Comment 2

[deleted]

### Comment 3

>Japan is actually very baby friendly if you’re traveling light. Most horror stories on Reddit were wrong or outdated.

Or likely by people who don't have children. My trips there with my son were some of the best trips I've ever done.

Edit: lol... I always get downvoted for making that comment yet no one has ever tried making a counter argument.

### Comment 4

> 2) Get a stroller that folds down small. It’s too challenging to travel with a big stroller. You absolutely need something that you can fold down and carry.

IMO,

A carrier is the better way to go if you can handle it.

>5) Japan is actually very baby friendly if you’re traveling light. 

As a dad of 3 kids who are Japanese nationals and frequently go to Japan...

This is not true or false.  There are certain aspects of Japan that will not be baby friendly.  Or at least baby friendly to western standards.

There are normally no facilities for fathers with children within more older establishments (not within the last 5 years).  This is changing, most PA's and SA's on the freeway, for example, have facilities.

> Most horror stories on Reddit were wrong or outdated. Restaurants will try to accommodate you if they can, but not every restaurant will be able to. Not much different than being in the US. If you have a baby you’re already dining early most likely, but the 5 and 5:30 PM reservations were definitely easiest.

While they will try to accommodate you, many restaurants are not equipped for babies or toddlers.  If you go to more family restaurants or restaurants where families are common, then yes, but overall, you are on your own with a kid.

IMO, you are being very disingenuous here with respect to this point.  Most places won't have "baby chairs", utensils, places, etc for toddlers.

---

Your post skips over a number of issues with babies/toddlers:

1. Co-sleeping is common in Japan, there generally won't be bassinets/cots/cribs for children in hotels, forget about it in BnBs or Ryokans
2. Many restaurants will not be equipped with menus for toddlers so you need to provide your own food.
3. Preparing baby food is going to be difficult at most hotels/ryokans
4. Finding baby supplies are going to take you off the beaten path.  Typically you will not find baby stores near the common tourist areas.
5. Clothing, if you need to purchase, is sized differently and you can't "try it on" for the baby.

You may have successfully traveled with the baby, but Japan is by no means baby friendly for tourists

### Comment 5

I was amazed at all the tourists who brought babies and young children! As well as locals who were out and about with children at the touristy spots. It was so sweet to see the kids exploring and the parents mostly seemed to be really enjoying their time too! 

