# Just finishing first trip to Japan! Knowledge Share

Sharing tips/advice from my first trip to Japan. And also a thank you to Reddit community for all the info I needed along the way! 

Traveled as a group of four and went to Tokyo>Sapporo>Osaka>Kyoto>Kawaguchi>Tokyo over 16 days.   
**Payment:**  
\- Credit card: my Chase Sapphire Preferred worked everywhere. I had no issues at all despite reading about how some non-JP issued visas aren't always accepted. The ONLY time my visa did not work was when ordering Shinkansen tickets online in advance of my trip. It was also super easy to reload Suica with my visa card linked up to apple wallet.   
\- Suica: we all opted for Suica (simply go to apple wallet and add the Suica card then load from a card in your wallet). No issues ever!   
\- ATM: I had issues with my Charles Schwab ATM card at random machines such as the train station but it worked at 7/11 ATM easily.   
\- Cash: as expected, some places were cash only but I’d say over half the restaurants/bars we went to took card.   
**Transit:**  
\- Suica: Worked for every mode of transportation we took (Subway/metros, Kintetsu, city buses)  
Booking in advance: we did book some routes in advance in case the times we wanted sold out. 

>We booked Kintetsu in advance (railway) for our Nara day trip from Kyoto. There’s a cute historic train (Aoniyoshi) that costs the same as regular Kintetsu but runs less frequently.   
>  
>We also booked Shinkansen in advance from Kyoto>Kawaguchi (Mishima station)
>
>and highway buses such as Mishima>Kawaguchiko and from Kawaguchiko>Tokyo (Shinjuku)

\- Hotel transport: I always check websites for hotels I'm staying at to see what their suggestions are from major airports/train stations. And SOME OFFER FREE SHUTTLES!  
\- Taxi: in some cities, we opted for DiDi/Uber more than public transit since we were a party of four (economical to split) and didn’t always stay next to a major station. All the rideshares were official taxi cars/drivers which is totally unlike the US  
**Other tips before leaving:**  
\- WiFi: I ordered a portable mifi to pickup at the airport when arriving. If your phone is unlocked (not being financed or on installments), then do eSIM since it’s cheaper and you don’t have to carry a mifi/charge it.   
\- Pulling cash from bank: with the favorable exchange rate, we did pull cash from our bank in the US months ago   
**Other tips when in Japan:**  
\- Luggage forwarding: Yamato is the main service we saw being used. Hotels can fill out forms for you and coordinate to forward your luggage to the next hotel so you can be a bit more hands free when traveling/taking trains. Costs a bit less than 2000 yen per bag. Obviously remember to pack an overnight bag with you with essentials you need since you usually have to drop off the bag at front desk by 12pm **the day before** you want the bag (i.e., day before checkout). *My friend had a great idea to forward a duffel with all of our gifts/souvenirs all the way to our last hotel in Japan since we won’t need the stuff throughout the trip!*   
\- Tax free shopping: keep your passport with you to get the tax free price discount (10% discount essentially) and sometimes additional 5-7% depending on store. You pay the tax free rate at point of sale so you don’t have to get the tax as a refund at airport (as Europe makes you do). Minimum spend at a store to get tax free is 5500 yen. If you’re buying drugs/cosmetics, they seal it up in a clear bag and sticker. Don’t open or peel sticker since you’re not supposed to use the products while in Japan. I read they often don’t check though at the airport.  They didn’t check for me but to be fair I spent less than $500 USD so prob not worth anyone’s time. 
\- Convenience stores: Japan convenience stores are incredible. Our personal favorite was Lawson (vs FamilyMart or 7/11). We’d get onigiris or sandwiches from the refrigerated section for breakfast since a lot of places didn’t open until 10am which we thought was crazy.   
\- Queues: we did opt for a lot of popular restaurants. In order to avoid standing around for 1.5 hours, we’d arrive 30 min before opening time (lunch usually opens 11:30, dinner at 5:30) which worked out for us since we prefer to eat early anyways

### Comment 1

> I had no issues at all despite reading about how some non-JP issued visas aren't always accepted. The ONLY time my visa did not work was when ordering Shinkansen tickets online in advance of my trip.

Non-Japanese Visas have always worked fine within Japan. That was never an issue. The issue with Visas happens on Japanese websites, due to the transaction security implementation. So you experienced it exactly how most Visa users do: things work fine in Japan, but don't work on Japanese websites.

> I had issues with my Charles Schwab ATM card at random machines such as the train station

Foreign cards don't work at any old ATM in Japan. The only ones they actually work at are convenience store ATMs and Japan Post. If you go to a Japanese bank's ATM (like Muzuho), they won't work.

> keep your passport with you to get the discount (10% tax back) 

Keep your passport with you _at all times_, as it's a legal requirement in Japan.

### Comment 2

Thank you for this! I am traveling to Japan this week for the first time so this helps answer my several questions and concerns especially about Suica.

### Comment 3

where did you book your shinkansen tickets? :)

### Comment 4

Can you list some of the restaurants that you enjoyed where the 30min early trick worked well please and thank you :)

### Comment 5

Thanks for this! Going next month and I have the sapphire preferred so definitely a weight off to know it will work. Do you know an alternative for the suica card if you have an android? I've been hearing a lot about being unable to get a physical one and know that they don't have them on Google wallet.

